---
title: Day 7
date: 2016-02-05
features:
- a bothersome pain
- a false positive
- some new friends
---

My neck hurt when I woke up today. I could look left just fine, but when it
turned my head to the right or at a certain angle I felt pain. I tried to figure
out what had caused this. Was it whiplash — had I jerked my head suddenly while
playing in the water? Lori thought perhaps it was a pinched nerve. Whatever it
was, it was certainly bothersome and made it difficult to get out of bed.

We left in the morning to go look for another beach. We wanted to go down to Mal
Pais this time because we heard that it had nice beaches with shade.

The drive there was brutal on my neck. Every little bump in the road was
painful. I did figure out that if I pressed my head back into the headrest, then
it absorbed some of the shock. But I was very uncomfortable in the car, and I
was growing irritated by the minute. We stopped for a smidge to check out a
beach, but I didn’t think it would be very enjoyable.

Eventually we turned around and stopped at Playa del Carmen, which is just
outside of the main part of Santa Teresa. I got out of the car. The heat of the
day had set in, and it felt like I was in an oven. I laid down. Thoughts came to
me, shrouded in emotion. When will this pain go away? Why didn’t we just go
straight here instead of wandering around for an hour? Why does she have to be
so adventurous and particular all of the time?

I pulled myself together. I wanted to be here because of the water. Maybe
everything would be okay if I got in.

That was the ticket. It was as if the water washed all of the pain away and
massaged my mind. Over and over I would watch as the waves rose above the water,
crested, rolled, and crashed into the vast ocean, tumbling toward me as though
vanquished by some mystical evil pulling it underground yet unwilling to go down
without a fight. And as much as I pretended I was a superhero or some kind of
Greek god, able to stop the ocean at my command, I was no match.

After a couple of hours, we came back home. We still needed more money, as were
down to a thousand dollars, and that wasn’t going to last another week. Two days
before, Lori had tried to use Western Union to send money to her account, as I
had done previously, and having heard nothing about it, she wanted to know what
the status of the transfer was. After calling them, she was horrified to learn
that the transfer had been cancelled almost immediately after she’d created it!
She then contacted Wells Fargo, only to find out that they had marked the
transaction as fraudulent, and as she signed on to her account online, she was
then told that she’d been locked out of that too. Understandably, she was very
panicked and angry and was given little sympathy by the fraud department, who
maintained they were just doing their job and there was nothing they could do
about it.

She realized that since she had a USAA credit card, she might be go down to the
local ATM in town and use it to withdraw money. There would likely be an
international fee, but she reasoned that they would be able to waive it. A short
call later, and we had the facts: yes, there would be a fee, and it would be a
small percentage of the overall withdrawal amount. But the important thing was,
this plan was feasible! There was a silver lining behind the clouds after all.

She and I had been cooped up in our room for a few hours at this point, and it
had gotten stuffy and sticky. I needed to get out again. Our place had a small
outdoor pool on one level of the property, and I suggested we sit there and have
cocktails. Lori went down to the dining area to prepare them while I climbed the
steps to the pool and got into the water. It was a lot colder than the ocean,
but it was very refreshing. The pool was dirty, however, and had a lot of leaves
and petals of flowers floating around in it. Maybe I could help out the owners
by cleaning it a little bit. I noticed the top of a net resting on a corner of
the pool, so I got up and grabbed it. The handle was so long it touched the
floor of the level below. I removed most of the cruft from the surface of the
water, admired my work, returned the net, and then got back in the water. After
a couple of laps, though, I stopped again. This pool just wasn’t as enjoyable as
the ocean.

I got out and laid on a wooden pool chair. It had cooled off considerably since
the afternoon, and it felt very nice. That sun had been merciless. I was
slightly concerned that I’d gotten sunburned. We were on our last rations of
sunscreen — we weren’t going to buy anymore until we had more money — and I had
put on a very thin layer before I’d gotten into the ocean. And my neck! What an
inconvenience. It’s amazing how one little part of your body can ache and it
changes your temperament completely.

After relaxing for a little while, I wondered where Lori had gone. Surely it
didn’t take this long to make cocktails? I walked down the stone steps to the
dining area, and there she was, in a conversation with some people. I walked
over and said hello, interested to see who they were. They were a couple from a
small island in Denmark, maybe in their late forties or early fifties, and they
had three children, all of whom were grown. They had just arrived the day
before, and were actually staying next door to our room. They were initially
skeptical of this place just like us, but they were quickly learning to love it.
They had made the grueling walk down the hill into town already — a fact that we
sympathized greatly with — and had checked out some of the local restaurants.
They were very charming, and Lori connected with the woman on the fact that they
both lamented the lack of certain conveniences such as air conditioning. They
mentioned how they were going to go snorkeling later the following week, just as
we would be doing. We shared some tips that we’d learned so far, on this our
seventh day.

After a nice conversation, we bode them good night and went to our respective
rooms.
