---
title: Day 6
date: 2016-02-04
teaser: In which we go to the waterfall at Montezuma and check out a new beach.
features:
- a natural haven
- a demonstration of force
- an excellent dessert
---

Now that we had a car, we could drive outside the town and check out other
attractions in the area. We sought one of the owners of our place for advice,
and he mentioned a waterfall located just short of Montezuma. It would be about
a 45-minute drive from Santa Teresa proper, by way of Mal Pais and Cabuya. The
waterfall wasn’t immediately accessible by car: we would need to leave our car
at a parking lot, pay a couple of men who were assigned to “watch” the cars one
*mil* (a thousand *colones*, or two dollars), and then we would need to hike to
the fall.

[Map of Montezuma relative to Santa Teresa]

We woke up and headed out at about ten in the morning. Most of the roads along
the route were loosely maintained dirt roads cut through the forest, full of
holes and bumps, that jostled the car and us inside as we went along.

We pulled into the parking lot, got out of the car, and paid the men, who were
relaxing at the entrance to the trail in a crude wooden shelter with the sides
cut off. Then we were on our way. The hike was rather nice — not like the hikes
back home in Colorado, where you climb a thousand feet. No, this one was fairly
easy — perhaps challenging in a couple of places, but otherwise very pleasant.

After a short climb spiraling up a hill — to our surprise, we ran into one of
the bartenders at Nativo on the way — we arrived at a small, natural pool of
water. It was set into the rock and walled on one side by a pillar of stone
leading upward. It was hot outside, and I was happy to take a dip. The water was
cold but refreshing. After a few minutes of paddling around, we got out and
continued with the hike.

The next part of the hike was different, as the pathway began to follow a creek.
The bed of the creek was wet, but the level of the water was low, and there were
most places where we could cross it if it we needed to. Figuring out how to
traverse the trail quickly became a game — something to be problem-solved. In
one area, the trail became very narrow, and we had to hold a rope to prevent
from losing balance and slipping on the bank into the water.

After about twenty minutes, the trail ended, and we came across the main
attraction. The rock cliff was about forty feet high, and water was spilling
from the top into an elliptical pool, similar to the one from earlier, but more
open. People were congregated here; most were relaxing on the banks of the water
and some were swimming in it. Looking closely at the top of the cliff, I could
spot four or five people who had somehow found a way to get there. I don’t think
I was the only one who thought that one of them would jump from the top. At the
same time, I also didn’t think that anyone would be crazy enough to do that,
considering that the rock wall behind the water wasn’t completely vertical.
There were some rocks jutting out from the base of the cliff that were at a
reasonable height for jumping, though, and a couple of boys were doing just
that.

[Video: The waterfall at Montezuma]

Lori and I stayed here for a while, swimming in the cool water. Most of the
tourists we passed were speaking English, but I spotted an older couple that
seemed to be from Germany, and there were visitors there that were from other
Spanish-speaking countries there as well. It was amazing — here we were in a
foreign country, connected to a bunch of people we’d never met before through a
common interest in nature.

After we hiked back to the car and started driving back toward Santa Teresa,
Lori wanted to find the tidepools we had been looking for the day before. As I
found out later, we were in the Playa Los Cedros area, and we found a beach that
had some rocky structures. Some of those structures created canals that briefly
captured the water as it ebbed and flowed. They weren’t true tidepools, but we
thought perhaps we would be able to sit in these canals. The water ended up too
strong to do this effectively, however, and we got a little banged up, as the
force of the water pushed us into the rocks around us. Plus, the tide carried a
multitude of sand and small pebbles which got into our swimsuits, and generally
made the car ride home uncomfortable.

[Map of beach we found]

[Video: The rocks at Playa Los Cedros]

[Photo: Me on the rocks]

We ended the day by going to Casa del Mar for dessert — they have an excellent
dish called chocolate salami that is absolutely to die for — before going to
Nativo for dinner and drinks. All in all, it was another good day in Costa Rica.
