---
title: Day 1
date: 2016-01-30
features:
- a new country
- a cousin
- a plan
---

Lori and I arrived in Costa Rica. If you’re wondering, yes, it is hot and humid
there, and it was abundantly clear the second we stepped out of the plane into
the airport. But once we went outside, it wasn’t so bad.

From the airport, we took a taxi to Liberia, where we were staying in a house
for one night. The house was an Airbnb (as was the apartment where we would be
in Santa Teresa, later). The woman who owned the house wasn’t staying there — we
were going to have it all to ourselves — and had given the keys to her cousin.

The taxi driver drove from the airport in Liberia into the city proper, pulling
into a neighborhood and stopping at the address we’d asked him to go to. It was
dark, so all we could see was a closed gate. He told us it was the correct
address, but there wasn’t anyone there. We were able to contact the cousin and
confirm that, yes, this was the right place. After idling for a bit, he walked
up, slid open the gate, and greeted us. He showed us around the house, and Lori
(who speaks Spanish much better than I do) conversed with him about the
specifics. Then he crossed the yard to the house next door, where his wife was
standing behind the door, and said that we should return the keys there the next
morning.

With that, he said *buenas noches*, and Lori and I walked back into the house to
settle in. We were both tired, but we also knew that we needed a way to get to
Santa Teresa in the morning. This was our real destination — we had a two-week
Airbnb here, and we couldn’t really abandon that plan. I hadn’t thought much
about getting there from Liberia, but I also knew that we didn’t have that many
options. We could:

a) rent a car,  
b) take the bus, or  
c) take a shuttle

Option A was going to be too expensive. Plus, it was dangerous — from what I’d
read online, drivers in Costa Rica are a little crazy and there aren’t a whole
lot of rules. For instance, a lot of roads are simply two-way, and it’s common
for cars or motorbikes to pass one another on such roads (by maneuvering into
the left lane and then back into the right lane once passed). And the roads
themselves aren’t in the greatest of conditions — there are sections that are
less maintained than others. My worry was that we’d get into an accident by
hitting a pothole, and then the rental company would charge us for the damage. I
didn’t want to get into that scenario.

Option C was a good one — there were plenty of shuttle companies, and most of
them left early enough in the morning to where we could have gotten to Santa
Teresa within 4 or 5 hours for about $50–60. (Santa Teresa isn’t close to
Liberia. I said we didn’t have that many options.) The only issue with this was
that you need to reserve shuttles ahead of time, and we hadn’t done that.

So that left option B. Some more research revealed that it was possible to get
to Santa Teresa in 9 hours by way of three buses and a ferry. It wasn’t the most
convenient way, but it was definitely the easiest and most cheapest one — since
bus drivers mainly take colones, the currency in Costa Rica, it would only cost
us around $12. It was a little crazy — we would have to make every bus
connection, and we knew we’d be tired after all was said and done. But I thought
it would be a fun adventure to take the scenic route, and so I was optimistic
that everything would be okay.

Everything was okay, but not quite in the way we expected. More on that next
time.
