---
title: Day 12
date: 2016-02-10
features:
- a swiftness through the trees
- an invitation
- four loud thunks
---

Lori and I went ziplining today. We were told that in order to get to the office
where the tour would start, we would have to head to the docks in Mal Pais and
shortly before we got there, we would see a sign for the company. The office
looked like a house, so it was slightly confusing, and after turning back
around, we finally reached it. We walked in and met the guides, and eventually
the other people who would be joining the tour with us walked in too. The main
guide, Carlos, went to each of us in turn and strapped us into the equipment, a
harness that cinched around our waist and thighs and had a hook on the front,
and gave us gloves to put on, which looked like worker’s gloves except that they
had a thick leather band running across the hand right before the fingers. Once
everyone was ready, we were on our way.

We followed Carlos to a yard around the corner, and we came upon a station where
a steel cable, raised a comfortable height above the ground, stretched across to
another station perhaps thirty feet away. This was the training area. Here he
gave us instructions that we would need to follow at each station once we were
at canopy level. The first thing he would do is take a clip, which had a pulley
in it, attach it to the cable, and then hook us onto the clip. To assist him
with that, we would have to face him and pull the cable down, as it was at chest
level and our hook was at waist level. Second, we would need to get in position
to launch off and ride. Now that we were attached to the cable, the most
comfortable position was to lean back and hang from it freely. In order to
stabilize ourselves, we needed to cross our legs Indian-style. Now we would need
to put our hands in two places. Our dominant hand we would need to place behind
us on the cable. This hand would serve to right ourselves, but it would also
function as a brake, as we could simply squeeze on the cable to slow down. The
other hand we would place on the thin cord linking us to the cable. Since the
pulley would be moving very fast while we were riding, it was very important to
not put a hand in front of it. He didn’t expound upon what exactly would happen
if we failed to pay attention to that rule, but he probably figured that an
understanding of Newton’s first law of motion would suffice to fill in the
blanks.

We each practiced the routine and rode the cable twice. Once we we had all
completed this, he led us to a pickup truck. We piled into the bed, and the car
took us up to the canopy.

There were six stations in total dotted across the trees. The course was mostly
straightforward — station, cable, station — but there were interesting
variations along the way. On one occasion, one of the guides had to ride ahead
and he chose one of us to ride with him Superman-style, where he attached us to
the cable backward and we flew hands-free across the divide, holding onto him
behind us with our legs. On another occasion, he had us ride upside down
(something I thought violated the safety rules, but I guess not). On another
occasion, there were two stations close together and we had to swing from one to
the other while clipped to a rope. Finally, at the last station, in the spirit
of the town we were in, we rode a surfboard.

We walked back to the office, and on our way out, Lori and I met a young couple
who were from New Jersey. As we were about to go to Caracolas for lunch and they
didn’t have a car, we invited them to go along. In fact, after lunch, we showed
them around town and exchanged contact details for a future date before bidding
them goodbye.

---

The rest of the day went quickly: Nativo for some downtime, Taco for a snack,
then back to the villas to rest.

It was getting late and Lori and I were hungry. It might have been something
Lori said that had rubbed me the wrong way, but I was starting to get into a bad
mood, and I didn’t much feel like going out. But Lori wanted to try a new place
for dinner and I didn’t feel like I had a choice.

So we decided to go to Las Piedras. As soon as I sat down, I knew that had been
the wrong choice. The music overpowered any conversation we could have had, the
street next to the restaurant was busy, and every so often I’d be taken out of
the moment by four loud thunks behind me, only to realize it was one of the
staff cutting meat.

Frazzled, I quickly scanned through the menu, settling on the beef tenderloin.
The waiter didn’t ask me what temperature I wanted it cooked, so I asked him. He
didn’t understand. I repeated the question, and he was only more confused. What
a trainwreck. What kind of respectable restaurant doesn’t ask for the
temperature of one’s meat? I finally managed to get “medium rare” through his
head, but I had already nixed this place off my mental list.

I was so incensed, wolfing down the beef, that Lori and I didn’t speak
throughout the entire meal. I had reached my breaking point, and I needed to get
out of here.
