---
title: Day 15
date: 2016-02-13
features:
- a return to dust
- a leisurely walk
- a spectator sport
---

Today was the last full day that Lori and I would be in Costa Rica. We woke up,
went downstairs, and ate breakfast, as we had done for the previous thirteen
days. We had nothing planned for the day, and even though I was worn out, I was
very thankful for a break.

We were sitting in the dining area, discussing what we wanted to do for the day,
when we noticed the representative for the rental car company descending the
steps toward our direction. “Surely he’s coming for someone else,” I told Lori.
We flagged down our host, who was sitting nearby, and asked him what was going
on. “Oh, actually, I forgot to tell you, but the rental car was actually due
yesterday morning.” What? Had we miscalculated the number of days we’d needed
the car? Evidently so.

I was disappointed that we would no longer be able to get around town so easily
as before. But it was only a day, and then we’d be gone.

We went with the representative to the office in town and paid for another day.
We were very grateful when he offered to drive us to any destination of our
choice and asked that he drop us off at Marianne.

We spent a few hours at the bakery, and then we figured, since we didn’t have
anything else to do, that we would go to Nativo for some drinks. We strolled
down the dusty thoroughfare, stopping to browse souvenir shops along the way,
until we got to the busy end of Santa Teresa.

We looked on to the bar. There was no one going in or out, but that made sense,
as afternoons were usually less populated there. We walked closer to get a
better look. But we were surprised to find that it was gated shut, there was no
one inside, and all of the chairs were organized neatly, some stacked, some
upside-down. “It’s closed?” I said. “Looks like it,” Lori said. Well, that was
annoying — we had walked two hours for nothing. “Ohh,” she said, as if a light
bulb had gone off. “It’s the rodeo.”

The rodeo in Costa Rica is a big deal. It’s an annual event, as you might
expect. But unlike the rodeo in the U.S., the rodeo in Costa Rica isn’t local to
a particular city. Instead, it’s like a concert tour, starting in one town and
making its way around the country. It’s televised, it’s crazy, and everyone
tunes in to watch.

Lori remembered just then that she had overheard someone talk about how the bar
was closed today because most of the bartenders, who were also the owners, were
going to the rodeo. I was flabbergasted. It would be unthinkable in the U.S. for
a business to completely close because the people who work there would rather go
to a national event for a day. You’re losing money, for heaven’s sake! But that
didn’t seem to be a problem for this bar.

In the U.S., especially in the technology field in which I work, we talk about
work/life balance, the idea that although work may dominate your time, it
shouldn’t dominate your life. It’s not uncommon for a company to sell themselves
to new employees by mentioning how they have a strong culture that promotes such
a balance. Oftentimes, however, when push comes to shove, the idea remains just
an idea. “Sure, you can take time off. But remember we’re launching something
new this week, so if you could cancel your existing plans and work this weekend,
that would be great.”

As you know by now, Costa Ricans have a name for work/life balance: *pura vida*.
And clearly, it’s not just an idea: they actually live it.

With the bar closed, Lori and I had to find somewhere else to go, as it was hot
and we both needed a cold drink. Lori remembered that there was another
restaurant/bar, one nearby the beach (Playa del Carmen). Fortunately, it was
merely around the corner and down the street.

I’d seen the place when were in the water some days before, but I’d never been
inside. I thought it was a typical beach bar: tables set on the sand with no
shade, small bar area, expensive prices. It was quite the opposite! The decor,
furniture, and table dressings gave the restaurant an upscale feel, but the
walls were cut away so that it was open and looked out to the beachfront.

We sat down at the bar and flipped through the menu. Given that we seemed to be
at a pizzeria, it seemed logical to order a pizza. There were plenty of choices,
and we settled on a Hawaiian. It was nice: the slices were large, the pineapple
was fresh, and the crust was hearty. We ordered a couple of Long Island Iced
Teas and clinked our glasses to surviving two weeks in Costa Rica (without
killing each other, to boot).

As the sun was setting, I got up from the bar and walked down to the beach. It
was more crowded than usual. It was obvious that this was the place to be. Some
people were still playing in the water, but most people were sitting on the sand
with their blankets underneath them, hanging out with their friends or
significant others, facing the sun, as though the horizon was a stage and we had
all gathered to see the greatest band in history.

After the show had ended, I walked back and took my seat again. Some time
afterward, as it was getting dark and the bar was starting to clear out, one of
the bartenders flipped on the TV. The rodeo had just begun!

It was mesmerizing. The format was simple: there were two segments that flipped
back and forth, and they were both equally exciting. The first segment was very
similar to Running of the Bulls. A lightweight bull would be let loose into the
arena, whereupon many people, participants who had likely volunteered, made it
their mission to snatch some kind of ribbon off of the animal, while avoiding a
horn in the butt and certain injury. Most people were, understandably, fearful,
and kept to the fence around the arena; but a few daring men (and women) danced
around the bull, sometimes charging forward madly, sometimes teasing him with a
flag. No one ever seemed to be able to catch the ribbon on his back, but it
didn’t matter, as the recklessness was show enough for the audience.

The second segment was more straightforward, as it was the bull-riding part of
the event. There were some really good contenders who managed to stay on for a
long time — a minute or more — and even show off a little. I thought these
bullriders could give the ones in the U.S. a run for their money, honestly.

After an hour or so, the rodeo ended, and some other program started playing on
the TV. By now it was dark, and we needed to go home. We paid our tab and texted
our taxi driver to see if he was around. He wasn’t being responsive, so we
started walking back to the main street. Amazingly, we ran into him near the
bank! He was parked on the side of the road, as though he had just dropped off a
customer some time ago, and seemed to be chatting with some buddies of his. We
called him over and asked him if he’d seen our message. It was obvious from his
response that he had been preoccupied. We told him that we’d need a ride in an
hour, and could he watch out for a text from us? He said that it’d be better if
we called, and we made a note of it.

Satisfied, we walked down to the bakery. (This was the busier bakery in the same
area as Nativo and the bank.) As we’d be waking up early the next morning to
catch our shuttle, we needed to get some sandwiches so we wouldn’t be hungry. A
local artist was playing guitar in the corner as we walked in. We placed an
order for the sandwiches, and as we were waiting for them to be made, we sat
down and listened to the music. The woman had a soft but clear voice, and she
was playing simple, acoustic versions of popular, albeit more classic, American
songs. I was tired and perhaps a little frazzled, but the music managed to calm
my nerves.

Having received our sandwiches, I dialed the number for our taxi driver. He
didn’t pick up, and when I went to investigate the same place he’d been earlier,
everyone had disappeared. Fortunately, another taxi happened to pass by and we
were able to hail it and get back up the hill with some of our last remaining
money.

We arrived back at the hotel, exhausted as usual, but excited for the following
day. It would take another twenty-four hours, but we would finally be back in
the States. We would finally be home.
