---
title: "Asia: Day 8"
date: 2016-03-04
features:
- a series of scenes
- a series of statues
- a sentimental song
---

As I talked about last time, I was growing frustrated at my inability to use my
phone when I was out for the day. This sounds petty, but it meant that I had to
plan my day from the start and I couldn’t break from that. It clashed with my
nature; I liked to wander sometimes. So there had to be something I could do. I
called T-Mobile and told the representative my story: I was in China and I was
only had 2G, and wasn’t there a way I could upgrade to some better plan? But he
said that even if I bought a high-speed data plan, it would be limited by
whatever connection I had. By the time I got off the phone, I had collected
enough information to understand just what the issue was.

China had been the thorn in my side the entire time. Actually there were three
thorns now. They were:

* *Firewall restrictions.* I saw this one coming well in advance of the trip,
  but I didn’t anticipate how many Google services I use or how many are used on
  the larger internet. I could get around this using a VPN, but that was
  difficult or impossible because of…
* *An ultra-slow connection.* It was apparent that China made it possible for
  companies like T-Mobile to use its carrier network. But it put a severe
  limitation on this usage: cell phone users could only have access to 2G
  speeds. And if you wanted something faster, you’d see a…
* *Requirement of a Chinese number to access wifi.* In the U.S., establishments
  that have a wifi network but want to make it private usually require people to
  enter a password. In China, from what I’d seen, that wasn’t the case; you
  entered your phone number, you’d be sent a code, and you’d enter that code in.
  But not every number would work—it simply wouldn’t let you through unless you
  input a Chinese number.

So if you put all of this together, what do you get? The only thing I could
conclude was that China wants to create its own telecommunications network and
discourage anyone else from gaining access. I suspect the true answer is more
complicated than that, but if they were to push an agenda like this, then it
would be incredibly easy to do. They already own a significant patch of the
earth, a large chunk of the population, a giant language barrier, and a great
wall. With that kind of power, they can pretty much do anything they want.

---

So there was nothing I could do about my phone. Fine—I would be out of China in
a couple days anyway. What was next? Well, I had realized the night before that
in my haste to leave the hostel in Shanghai, I must have left part of the power
cord for my computer behind. I hopped on the wifi at the hostel and located an
Apple store within walking distance—apparently Hangzhou was not as small as I
thought it was—and saved a screenshot so that in the not-so-rare event that I
got lost, I would know where to go. (See, I was learning.)

It was a brisk thirty minutes’ walk up to the richer part of town. I like
walking because you notice a lot more than you usually would in a car. Take the
roads, for instance. Like in Shanghai, they were swarming with all kinds of
transportation: cars, scooters, bicycles, and pedestrians. But the city welcomed
all of them. The smaller roads were mostly for pedestrians, and some bicycles
and scooters were allowed, although at low speeds. The wider avenues were mostly
for cars, but here’s the twist: there was a specific lane for slower vehicles,
usually divided by a median. What an ingenious idea. I wished that we carried it
over to America.

At certain points, I would reach an intersection and the sidewalk would be
fenced off. This was initially confusing for me, because it meant I couldn’t
simply cross the street. I eventually realized that this tended to happen where
a Metro station appeared. There were two options: either I could descend the
steps into the station, walk the hallway underneath the street, and I would
usually pop up somewhere on the other side; or I could turn the corner, and
sometimes there was a crosswalk in the middle of the side street I could use to
keep going in the same direction.

Another thing I noticed was that I had to be aware of my surroundings when it
came to traffic. In the U.S., heavier things generally yield to lighter things,
but in China, it was the reverse. If you were a pedestrian, you couldn’t just
make the assumption that a car or a scooter would slow down for you—if you tried
to cross, you were blocking the flow of traffic and people would get mad and
honk at you (or they would try to go around you). So at intersections, even if
there was an explicit crosswalk, you really had to watch out, because there was
a lot going on. I wouldn’t say it was as chaotic as Bangkok—that is absolute
madness, and everyone is trying to do everything all of the time. But there was
the same mentality, a sort of selfish mentality, where everyone thinks *they*
have priority. I’m not sure there’s a wrong or right here. Patience is nice, but
it’s also inefficient.

---

After I got back to the hostel, I went out again to wander around my
neighborhood and take a few pictures. I really liked this area. The street where
the hostel was immediately located, as I’ve mentioned, was usually quiet, with
people casually strolling through and the occasional scooter silently bobbing
by. I thought of it as more of an alleyway—not dark, dirty, or smelly, but
sleepy, cloistered, idyllic.

If you took the street to the right, you would come to a square, and all along
this street, which stretched this way and that, were kiosks stationed every few
feet, and hordes of pedestrians, many of them young people, were strolling,
buying food, taking pictures, or hanging out with their friends. I had been that
way a few times already, so I went out the hostel and headed left this time.
Within a few yards, the alleyway opened up to an intersection of three streets
at various angles, curving around to a small tunnel. There was a kind of art
exhibit here called Seven Walls[^fn1], scenes embedded in rectangular slabs
created using materials such as wood, stone, pipe, or even everyday devices like
home energy meters.

I was curious what was around the bend and through the tunnel, so I walked on
and came out the other side. The street continued on to another intersection,
and the space here was open as well. I turned around to face the tunnel. There
were some steps to the right of it, and a man stood guard. Correction: he was a
statue. He must have been here a long time, because his paint was chipping and
part of his hand was missing. What was this place? I couldn’t see where the
stairs led, but I looked up and there were people on top. That meant it wasn’t
blocked off. I shrugged and went up.

At the top sat a giant circular stone gong, painted with a stylized dragon in
faded light blue and yellow. I side-stepped it to see a templar structure
looming above. There were steps leading down, around, and up, and a man was
selling some toys in the corner. *Who would be interested in buying anything
here?* I thought. I ignored him and came up to meet the level of the structure.
There were more statues lined up against the wall around it. They were clones of
each other, silently holding flags, staring straight ahead in unison at some
imaginary point far, far away. *What a strange place,* I thought. I made a full
tour behind the tower and back around again. The view up here wasn’t the
prettiest: there were major roads stacked on top of one another located a
cannon’s shot away. I tried to imagine what it looked like when it had been
built, but it was difficult to do so with so much around.

---

The heart of Hangzhou is located next to a lake. I had meant to go there today,
but by now the sun was setting, and I figured I wouldn’t have enough light to
take any photos. So I got down from the tower and headed back in the direction
of the hostel. I  briefly considered grabbing some food from some of the shops
in the neighborhood, but I really liked the restaurant I went to the day
before—it was close, they had good food, and that was good enough for me.

I was eating, observing, thinking of nothing, when I caught some music playing
on the radio. It was a cover of a song by the band Snow Patrol called “Run”. The
song itself isn’t important—the words are cryptic, as most songs are. It could
have been any song, really. But this song in particular has some significance to
me. That’s because the first time I heard it, I was in a car bound for Sandusky,
Ohio.

I was seventeen, and I was in my senior year of high school. They say high
school is where you start figuring out who you are, and if that’s true, then
senior year is where you start figuring out where you want your life to go. I
didn’t feel like I had a good handle on either of these things, and for the most
part, I felt lost. I had made friends with one of the college girls at church,
though, and that brightened my world for a time.

One day we were talking about theme parks, and she mentioned one of her
favorites. Since it was located in her home state of Ohio, she had made a
tradition of going every year with her brothers, visiting her parents on the
way. It just so happened that this theme park—Cedar Point in Sandusky—was also
the best in the country: over ten of the roller coasters there claimed records
for speediest, quickest, highest, and so forth.

So I was excited when she invited me to go, and together she and I and some of
the other college students drove ten hours, stayed overnight at her parents’
house, then spent the next full day at the theme park. It was a great time, and
I was able to pretend that I was on another eschelon of life for a brief while.
On the car ride back, we were playing through an album by Snow Patrol, a new
band to me, and as I was sitting there reflecting on the experience, that’s when
I heard the song I mentioned before. I felt like it captured the moment
perfectly. It represented the future—a future of something greater. It meant
that I didn’t have to worry about where my life went after that, as long as I
was able to step out of my comfort zone, go on an adventure once in a while, and
surround myself with good people.

I feel like I can safely check off the last two items on that list. That first
one, though? That’s something else entirely.

[^fn1]: I have a poor memory of what this was actually called, but I will update this post if I can figure out what the name was.
