---
title: "Asia: Day 16"
date: 2016-03-11
features:
- some incomplete instructions
- a couple of helpful people
- crossing the border by bus
---

I had to wake up very early today. I’d decided to take a train from Singapore to
Kuala Lumpur; in fact, I’d decided that I wanted to take a train through
Malaysia, Thailand, Cambodia—all the way until I got to Vietnam. Why? I wanted
to conserve money—by air, it would cost $80-150 at each stop along the way; by
rail, around $15—and the extra time would allow me to read and see countryside I
wouldn’t get a chance to see otherwise.

I had bought a [ticket](http://www.easybook.com/train) for the train, which was
serviced by KTM, the night before, and it left at 8:40am from JB Sentral
Station, which was just past the border of Singapore and Malaysia. To get to JB
Sentral, my plan was to take the subway at Clarke Quay, get off at Little India,
and transfer to bus 170. My understanding was that on the way, we would pass
through Woodlands Checkpoint, and immigration and passport check would take
place on the bus. I estimated the whole trip to take one-and-a-half hours, so if
I jumped on the subway at 6:00, that meant I would be at the train station at
7:30 with plenty of time to spare.

Unfortunately, it was 6:20 before I was out the door and 6:30 before I got on
the subway at Clarke Quay. I got off at Little India, as planned, and found the
bus station there. The bus had been scheduled to arrive at 7:00 and was ten
minutes late. Pleased that the subway and buses used the same payment
system, I swiped my card and got on.

At 7:45, the bus stopped. Everyone was getting out. I cautiously followed,
realizing as we went inside that we would have to go through departure first. I
watched as people lined up behind machines, put their passports face-down on
scanners, and walked through. These people had Malaysian passports; I did not,
and the machine gave me a failure. I stepped out of the line and entered
another, where an agent manually checked my passport without any issues.

7:55. I was beginning to get worried about the time, but I followed everyone
outside regardless. A bus was waiting there, but according to the sign on the
front, it was not going to JB Sentral. I found the bus driver and asked him
about it. He pointed to a second bus a stone’s throw away. There a man stood at
a makeshift counter. The sign in front read “Causeway Link,” going from
Singapore to Johor Bahru. That was right, but a paper sign above him read “335
MYR”. “I don’t have that much,” I said, pulling out my wallet. He took my
five-*ringgit* note and gave me back one *ringgit* and seventy-five *sen*. I
guess the decimal point was understood.

8:00. The bus drove across a bridge, pulling into what looked like the underside
of an airport, and stopped. Everyone was getting out again. I was confused. The
driver was already outside when I stepped off. “Where do I go?” I yelled to him,
my voice echoing off the vast space of the garage. He yelled something back that
I didn’t catch. I walked away, gravitating toward the direction the other
passengers had gone. Two of the passengers on the bus had held back and were
standing in front of an elevator. “Where are you going?” one of them asked.
“Well,” I said, exasperated, “I’m trying to get to JB Sentral.” “You have to go
through immigration first,” she said. “We’re going the same way. You can follow
us.” We went up a couple of floors. I waited in line—the right line this
time—until my passport had been reviewed, and then I was through.

8:05. I tailed the crowd back downstairs and found a suite of buses that were
idling on the side of the underpass. Where to go now? A group of people climbed
on a bus. It began to pull away, and I tried to get on. But the driver shook his
head at me and sped away. These were charter buses, apparently; I needed to find
a public bus. A bystander directed me to the corner. It was a horrible place for
a stop. There were three lanes for three routes, and according to a sign, the
middle lane went to JB Sentral. I traced it and got on the bus.

8:10. Everyone filed out for the third time, and as we ascended the stairs,
things started to look more familiar now. As I was wondering how much further I
had to go, I spotted a sign for JB Sentral. I was at JB Sentral!

It was easy to find the train after that. I was right on time; within ten
minutes, I boarded and I was on my way to Kuala Lumpur.

—

Let’s review! Getting from Singapore to Kuala Lumpur looks like this:

* In Singapore, take the subway to Woodlands (~1 hr from Clarke Quay)
* Get off at Woodlands, go inside and go through departure
* Walk outside and transfer to the Causeway Express (pay man at station)
* Go through arrival
* Find the public bus stop next to the charter buses; look for a sign for JB
  Sentral
* Arrive at JB Sentral
* Take the KLM to Kuala Lumpur

It’s easy once you know how!
