---
title: "Asia: Day 3"
date: 2016-02-29
features:
- a final taste of luxury
- a lovely taste of nature
- a first taste of nomading
---

I woke up this morning and had breakfast with Ben on a lower floor of the Grand
Hyatt. I had experienced this kind of breakfast before, and I was looking
forward to it. There was a wide selection to eat—not only American items such as
cinnamon buns, donuts, and omelettes, but also Asian items as well. They
especially had two of my favorite things: dragonfruit, a soft and sweet fruit
easy to spot due to its white flesh speckled with black seeds; and congee, a
warm bowl of goodness similar to oatmeal, only soupier, and often served with a
bunch of toppings such as seaweed or pickled radish.

After breakfast, we met up again with Andre, who returned the favor from the
night before and showed us his room. He was jocular about the lack of a fancy
toilet in *his* room, even though I was disenchanted about it.

After the tour, Ben, Andre and I exited the Grand Hyatt and took the Metro over
to the Bund, a long, wide pedestrian avenue that looks out over the River,
fronted by a wall decorated with flowers. It’s a very popular tourist spot, and
many people were roaming, holding selfie sticks and taking pictures of
themselves with their boyfriend, girlfriend, friends, or family. On the other
side of the Bund, looking toward the city, the road was lined with older
buildings. Andre pointed out that these buildings were constructed during a
period of Western influence, and as such, there were many styles represented
here: English, French, and Greek, although I’m sure there are more. The building
he liked was the largest one: one of the former original locations of HSBC Bank,
the Hong Kong–Shanghai Banking Corporation, which, as he explained, now owns
many banks in Asia and abroad.

After spending time here, we rode the Metro to the Yu Garden. Another common
tourist area, it is located in the oldest part of the city. It cost a few
dollars, but I figured that was a small price to pay for some history.

We purchased a ticket and went inside. As we walked through, I could see that
the garden grounds contained structures, built some time ago in antiquity. They
were decorated to resemble temples, but the beauty was in simplicity, not
lavishness. Around Bangkok I’d seen temples with vibrant colors and ornate
fixtures, shingles of red or green cornered with dragons made of gold. But here
there was none of that: the roof was brown, the walls were an off-white, and
sometimes there would be red balls with tassels hanging from the ceilings
outside door frames and in hallways, which seemed to be very common around
Shanghai. Inside some of the buildings were historic documents, paintings, or
trinkets on display behind plexiglass. But as all of the writing was in Chinese,
I was unaware of their significance.

The courtyard, peppered with statues of animals or people and squat bushes of
pink flowers, led to other areas which were demarcated with arches in the stone
walls; and grilled into the walls to act as windows were geometric patterns, no
two of which were alike. After viewing several of the temple structures, we came
to a bridge that passed over a waterway. Orange coy fish were swimming here,
excitedly attracted to one spot where tourists were feeding them breadcrumbs,
and people were taking selfies on benches.

Overall, the garden offered a quiet refuge to take photos and relax—and we
became immediately aware of this when we exited to come upon a row of vendors
selling food and trinkets and a multitude of people noisily gathered around. The
simple architecture and natural beauty of the garden lay in stark contrast to
the rest of the city, where tall, manmade, lifeless artifices of steel, glass,
and stone ruled the sky, and the streets and avenues flowed constantly with
pedestrians, scooters, and cars.

We meandered until we came to a food court. Andre became excited because he had
run into the same spot on a prior trip and hadn’t expected to see it again.
Walking inside, I could see why. The place was crazy. The room, which was open
to outside, was filled to the brim with people who were busy chatting and
eating, and the far wall was lined with people who were taking food from service
people behind the counter. He led us over and we waded through the crowed as he
showed us that there was a wide variety of items to choose from. Finding a table
in the chaos would be tough, but we happened upon one that had just been
cleaned. Andre and Ben took turns grabbing food, and we sat and enjoyed our meal
of dumplings, veggies, and sweet root.

Ben and Andre had planned on meeting up with a couple of their travel hacking
buddies today. One of them was staying in the Andaz over in Xintiandi, so after
this, we took the Metro there. It was very clear upon walking around that
Xintiandi is very different from the other parts of Shanghai. It is a rich area,
an amalgamation of British, American, French, and Italian influence full of
high-dollar shops and restaurants. I liked it, but who wouldn’t? It seemed very
friendly to expats and foreigners.

The Andaz was a ten-minute walk away, and we walked inside. The ground floor was
a large lounge, a room full of sofas and chairs. Sunlight streamed in through
the windows, and a bar was located in the back of the room. After a short wait
here, the fourth member of our crew arrived, having just checked in. We went
with him to get a tour of his room, which was similar in extravagance to the
room at the Grand Hyatt.

After that, we hopped back onto the Metro and headed back across the River, as
the fifth person had also arrived, and he was staying at the Park Hyatt, which
he was also glad to show off. (Evidently, Hyatt hotels are rather popular among
travel hackers.) Of all of the hotels, I liked this one the best. The design of
the place seemed less luxurious and more crafted, although the bathroom was
still awash in marble. I wasn’t any more likely to choose this as a hotel as
opposed to the Grand Hyatt or Andaz, of course, but it certainly looked
enjoyable.

No one was quite hungry, so we decided to go down to the hotel lobby. I was
under the impression that we were going to have drinks, but everyone seemed to
be way more interested in chatting about travel: how they took such-and-such
route to such-and-such city and earned such-and-such miles, and how
such-and-such lounge at such-and-such airport was better than such-and-such
other lounge. I felt a little trapped, but I didn’t want to impose. They were
all here to catch up with each other, after all.

Finally, a plan was decided upon. I needed to check into my hostel, which I’d
booked the night before, and that was located near the River. It was likely that
we could find a place to eat nearby, so we were all going to go together. I gave
Ben the address, and we went down to the hotel entrance, where we found a member
of the hotel staff, likely a valet driver, standing outside. He recommended that
we actually call an Uber! I was surprised to find that they operated in
Shanghai. So we did just that. After a while, the car arrived and we piled into
it. Ben was having trouble entering the destination into the app, so we had the
staffperson communicate the address to the driver in Chinese.

We set out, and all was well for a while. But when we got out, Ben became
annoyed, as the driver had taken us to the wrong place: West Nanjing instead of
East Nanjing. There was nothing we could do about it, so we filed out and ended
up taking two Metro stops to get to the hostel, which, we realized, we probably
could have done in the first place.

The hostel was located three blocks away from the subway stop down a narrow
street full of Chinese signs. None of us knew where it was exactly, and I felt
like I was leading them to a place that didn’t exist. A sign that said “HOTEL”
pointed to the right, and beyond it was a building that had one small light in
front. I wasn’t sure about it, but we pressed ahead. A poster on the building
confirmed the existence of a hostel inside, as it displayed the letters “Hi”,
which stood for Hostel International, with the letters 4F, which meant the
fourth floor. So this place seemed to house multiple services.

We walked inside. A lone guard sat behind a counter in the corner, and the small
entryway was dirty and void of any decoration. A hotel this wasn’t. A hallway
continued ahead, and we stopped there. To the left were three elevators, and
after some initial confusion, we realized that they seemed to serve a different
group of floors. We managed to choose the right one and ascended.

I felt slightly uneasy, but once we stepped out and I recognized the logo, I
felt better. The guys waited in the lobby, which also served as a lounge and
bar, while I checked in. After I paid and received the key, I walked into my
room for the first time. It was small, and there were eight bunk beds against
the walls: four against one, and four against the other. In the low light, I
noticed a guy sitting on the bottom-right bed. He would be my bunkmate—I would
be on top—and I said hello and we made small talk for a bit. He was from another
part of China, he said, and would be there for a couple of days. I stowed my
backpack in the wooden cabinet that sat in the back of the room, secured the
lock, and left him for the time being.

I met back up with the guys, who were now sitting at a table with an order of
drinks. I acquired my own beverage from the bar and sat patiently as they talked
more about their travel experiences. After a couple of rounds, we were hungry.
The hostel staff recommended a Cantonese restaurant a few blocks away, and so we
strolled over. It was very empty when we arrived, but since none of us knew the
area, we didn’t have another option. Still, it was very good food, and we
ordered the standard fare.

After this, the guys needed to get back across the river, and I wanted to settle
in for the night. We parted ways there, and I walked back to the hostel and
opened the door to my room. Even though it was only eleven, the lights were off
and everyone was already in bed. I climbed up the ladder to the top bunk as
quietly as I could. The covers were warm, and I quickly fell asleep.
