---
title: "Asia: Day 5"
date: 2016-03-01
features:
- an invitation
- a game
- a lesson
---

I had determined the day before that I couldn’t plug my computer into the
electrical outlets in China; I would need to obtain something else to do so.
During the middle of the night, I woke up with a revelation: I had an outlet
adapter with me! I had bought it before the trip, and from what I understood, it
could support multiple outlet types. So I silently pulled it out of my bag and
started playing with it to see if it would work. I could see that it was able to
plug into a Chinese outlet—but I couldn’t see how I would be able to plug my
computer into it. And that’s when it dawned on me: the input and output sockets
on the adapter didn’t have three prongs, they only had two. It was designed for
simple devices—not for larger ones that required grounded power.

Well, that wasn’t going to help me. I would need to go to the Apple Store and
get a World Adapter Kit. This is a box that contains adapters for every type of
outlets across the world (and there are [quite a
few](http://www.worldstandards.eu/electricity/plugs-and-sockets/) of them). So
if you go to a different country, all you need to do is detach a portion of your
official Apple power cord™ and attach one of the adapters instead, and voilá,
you’re in business.

Here’s the thing: before I left, I bought one, fully expecting to run into this
exact problem. But at the last moment, I returned it, because I thought a
cheaper, smaller, and lighter adapter I’d found on Amazon would work just the
same. Yup, I had sabotaged myself.

So that was today’s agenda: to make up for my mistake by walking down to the
Apple Store and buying the adapters. After that, I figured I would go back to
Xintiandi, since I hadn’t gotten a chance to check it out much when I was there
two days prior.

Unfortunately, my day didn’t exactly go as planned.

---

I walked down to Nanjing Street, purchased the box, went back to the hostel, and
hung out until my computer was fully charged. Great. Now for the second step. To
get to Xintiandi, I needed to take the green all the way to People’s Square, and
then transfer to the red line. That meant I would have to hike it back to
Nanjing again.

So I was walking around, half looking for the Metro station, half thinking about
buying shoes, when a girl who had her phone out called out to me in English.
“Excuse me,” she said. “Can you take a picture of me standing in front of this
building?” She was young and short and had brown hair and a fair complexion. I
didn’t see what was so special about the building, but I was happy to oblige. “I
love the architecture of this building, it is very beautiful,” she went on,
after I handed her phone back. For a Chinese person, she had good English,
although she spoke with an exaggerated pronunciation so it was hard to hear her.
She turned to me. “Where are you from?” She seemed friendly, and I didn’t mind
answering the question. She replied: “What kinds of buildings do you have in the
U.S.? Are there any examples of beautiful buildings like this?” It was a strange
question, to be sure, and I put aside thought of the Metro for a moment to
conjure up an answer. “Our buildings aren’t really beautiful like that,” I said.
“They’re more…square and boring.”

She asked more of the questions that anyone who wanted to get to know a
foreigner would ask: what are you here for, how long are you staying, are you a
student, and so forth. It was a relief to meet someone on the street, I thought,
and offload some of the anxiety I had about being in this city alone. She was
inquisitive, sure, but I made sure to ask the same questions back, and the
answers I got didn’t seem unbelievable. This was her first time in Shanghai, she
said, and she had gone to a university a while back but was out now.

“What are you doing today?” she asked. I told her about my plans to go to
Xintiandi. “Ohh, Xintiandi,” she nodded, as if finally understanding some
abstract concept. “There are a lot of French buildings there.”

“That’s right,” I said. “A lot of French, British, and Italian influence.”

“That is very nice,” she said. “There is this tea performance that I like going
to sometimes. I was about to go, would you like to go with me?”

“What is a tea performance?” I asked.

“It’s a performance, a show,” she said. “You get to pick a tea and then you
learn about the history of the tea.”

I thought about it for a second. I hadn’t heard of this before. Maybe she had a
limited lexicon and a “show” or “performance” was her name for it. But again, it
didn’t sound completely out of place. People did like their tea in China, and
Shanghai used to be a major player in the tea trade. On the other hand, she was
very chatty, and something felt wrong about that. “I planned on going to
Xintiandi,” I heard myself saying. “I was looking for the Metro.”

“Oh, but this won’t take up too much of your time, and then you can go to
Xintiandi after that,” she said.

For some reason, I was drawn. I didn’t know how much money this tea performance
cost, but I didn’t really *have* to go to Xintiandi right then; I was okay with
taking a short detour and drinking some tea and learning some history.

“We can walk this way,” she said, accepting my hesitance as aquiescence. So we
walked, and on the way she kept the conversation going. However, now I was a
little suspicious, so I started throwing some of my weight into the conversation
and asking her questions too. I had the thought that maybe I could throw her off
her game. I knew that I was only playing defense to her offense, but at least it
was better than no defense at all.

The tea house was three blocks over and one block up, and we arrived in no time.
Sure enough, it said “tea performance, 2F” on the side of the building. I hadn’t
expected this. Maybe this place *was* real. But if it wasn’t, and something
*were* really going on here, I knew that once I stepped in the door, I couldn’t
back out of it. I suddenly panicked. “Uhh, I just remembered that I have to go
meet some friends now,” I blurted. It was all I could think of, it was pathetic,
and she had an easy counter for it. “You are very cautious,” she said. So I’d
been found out. What now? I decided to take an honesty tactic. Maybe if I told
her what I was thinking, she would relax and put it behind her. Maybe.

“Well,” I started, “that’s true, I *am* cautious. Because… In my hostel there’s
a sign posted that has a warning about meeting people on the street who are very
friendly, but then they take them to a tea house, and then it turns out to be a
scam. They fool them into giving more money than they should.” This was true; I
*had* been warned about this, but it hadn’t come to mind until now.

“Ohh, it’s a trick,” she said, again with this exaggerated sense of wonderment.

“Yes, exactly. And I’m hoping that you’re not going to trick me and take my
money.”

“Oh, no, we would not trick you,” she said.

“Well, good.” That seemed to make me feel a little better. “We can go inside and
you can look to see if you like it,” she said.

I was uncertain, but I felt like I had to go through with it now. Why would I
walk all the way over with her to this place and then walk away at the last
moment? I knew I was taking a risk, but how dangerous could it really be,
anyway? This wasn’t quite going the way that I thought, but if it did turn out
to be a scam, I could figure out how to regain control again. I just had to
watch and see what happened.

So I said softly, “Okay.” A woman was waiting for us outside, and the girl led
me closer and the three of us stepped indoors. The woman said something. “Do you
speak Chinese?” the girl asked me. “No,” I said. “Oh,” she said disappointedly,
pausing slightly. “It’s okay, I will translate for you.” Well, that was perfect.
It was another power move, and there was nothing I could do about it. “She said
there are two rooms, one big and one small. She says we can go in the big one if
we like.” I was on full alert now, and I was fairly certain that the big one
cost extra in some way. “No, let’s go with the small one,” I said.

She gave a small laugh and said, “Okay.” The girl and I went into the room. A
table was there with some kind of board set down and six jars laid out in front
of it. The lady came in shortly and closed the door.

We were presented a menu, which I could see consisted of a list of teas and
their descriptions along with the prices. I mentally did the calculation—each
tea was $6. It was expensive, sure, but it wasn’t horrible, and if I had to pay
$12 then it wouldn’t be the end of the world. I was looking for something they
weren’t saying, and I wasn’t able to find it.

The woman spoke again, this time to both of us. We could choose one tea each,
the girl translated. I played along and did so, and the “performance” began.

The woman went through some kind of routine of pouring the tea and explaining
how the tea was used. There was a picture of the Emperor, or one of the Emperors
anyway, hanging on the wall behind us. She explained that tea used to be
something that the Emperor and only the Emperor used to drink.

The first tea was a green tea, and so she had us place some of the leaves under
our eyes. It was believed, she said, that the leaves helped improve the skin and
restore health. She then poured some tea for us and had us smell it and taste
it. I followed suit.

One thing I noticed was that when the girl would translate for me, she would
respond as if she had heard it for the first time. “Oh, and now she’s saying…”
But when she relayed the information, she provided a bunch of detail which she
wouldn’t have known on her first run-through. Now, it was entirely plausible
that this wasn’t a trap, that she so happened to have frequented plenty of tea
houses, and so she was very familiar with the pattern—kind of like how if you’ve
been to several baseball games, you know about the opening pitch, you know when
to stand for the national anthem, you know about the seventh inning stretch,
etc.

The woman presented the second tea in a similar fashion. Now we’re going to
smell the jar, taste the ingredients, smell the tea, taste the tea, and I’ll
give you some history to go along with it.

Then the woman started talking about the four numbers that are widely considered
lucky by Chinese people: six, seven, eight, and eleven, and how each of them
were thought to have some kind of good consequence. I didn’t believe any of it,
of course, but it didn’t matter, because it was all part of the act: feed the
Westerner information that he is unable to properly categorize and that he is
ultimately forced to accept on blind faith as “part of the experience”.

At the end of this, the girl asked me, “What is your favorite number?” I quickly
chose something to move to the next step, and she said, “She says that whatever
number you choose, you can pick that many more teas.”

Aha. I was waiting for the catch, and there it was. I had all the proof I needed
now.

“My favorite number is eleven,” she went on. “I think that we should pick that
one.” Well, of course, she would try to steer me to get more, because I’d have
to pay for all of them.

This was a game, and I was still a player. “No,” I said. “I think we should only
have two.”

“Are you sure?” she said, pointing to the jars. “There are a lot that you can
pick.”

“No, I’m good with two.”

She relayed this information to the woman, who then continued by attempting to
sell me on a package of tea that I could buy if so chose. I declined this as
well, but curiously, the girl accepted, claiming that she wanted to get some for
her father.

Now the woman brought out the bill. I looked it over. There were the two teas
that we ordered, times two. Fine. But then listed at the bottom was a “service
fee” that was almost double the cost of the teas. Well, wasn’t that dandy.

It was a performance indeed, and this was the conclusion. The girl stopped
translating, and spoke more slowly, more deliberately this time. “Excuse me,”
she began, “since you are a man and I am a woman, I was thinking that you could
pay for part of my tea and maybe most of the rest?”

Oh, that was rich. It was bold, I would give her that, but she was forgetting
that she was talking to an American, and she was about to get a rude sense of
how things worked in America.

“No,” I countered. “You bought the tea, that’s your tea, so you pay for it. We
came here together but separately, and so here’s what I think: I pay half and
you pay half.”

This clearly flummoxed her, and she feigned offense. “I am very surprised, very
surprised that you would say that,” she huffed. The woman behind the table, of
course, had a horrified look on her face, as if *she* had personally done
something wrong. I was starting to wonder if she were acting, too.

But I held my ground, and the girl didn’t say anything more about it. I would be
out only thirty dollars. I paid the money, said thank you, and walked out.

---

I thought about what had happened as I made my way back to Nanjing and
eventually my original destination, Xintiandi. I was both relieved and
disappointed in myself. I could have lost a lot more—thirty dollars wasn’t going
to hurt anything. But at the same time, I had allowed myself to be led astray,
to be duped, and that wasn’t a great feeling. It meant I was gullible just like
the rest of them.

But I didn’t care so much about that. What I really cared about was the girl.
Why did I go with her? Because I believed she was a good person. And really, I
don’t think she thought she was doing anything wrong. I’m sure she was aware
that she was very pretty, she liked to hear herself talk, and she liked to be in
control. So it was probably fun to her—find some nice, unsuspecting Western men
who will never report you or see you again, chat them up, lure them back to the
tea house to make some cash for yourself and for whoever ran the place, and do
it over again.

I had this desire to go back in there. That may seem surprising, considering I
had just escaped, but I wanted to find her again, sit down with her and and
explain that what she was doing was wrong—that she had these great talents and
she was completely wasting them on a criminal job that was warping her sense of
morality.

But I could do no such thing. I had gotten fooled, and I would have to make sure
I didn’t fooled again in the future.
