---
title: "Asia: Days 1-2"
date: 2016-02-28
features:
- a crossing across the globe
- a feeling of new adventure
- a fancy place to sleep
---

After Costa Rica, I returned home to Denver and spent some time recharging my
batteries. I needed to prepare for the next trip: a two-month trek across Asia.

The first stop? Shanghai.

The flight, which connected in Dallas, was fifteen hours. Fifteen hours in a
plane is a long time. Imagine being in a room where people are sitting around
you, the lights are low, and everything is silent save for a constant humming
noise. Then imagine you are like this for two workdays.

The time passed in phases:

* Hours 1-2: reading
* Hours 3-4: writing
* Hours 5-10: watching movies
* Hours 11-12: attempting to sleep
* Hours 13-15: trying to find something else to do

Finally, the pilot came onto the speaker and announced that it was about four
o’clock the next day and we were on our descent into Shanghai. I looked out of
the window. Suddenly, I became aware that I was halfway around the world, and I
was starting to get excited. A river was snaking through the land, and there
were plenty of freights floating lazily through it. Further in, an army of
industrial structures covered the ground. I knew I wasn’t in the U.S. anymore.

I went through arrivals and customs and met up with my friend Ben and his friend
Andre, who had been waiting in the airport for forty-five minutes. As we exited
the airport, they explained that in order to get to the hotel, we were about to
take the maglev, one of the fastest trains in Asia next to Japan’s bullet train.
And indeed it did go fast—around three hundred kilometers per hour, or one
hundred eighty-five miles per hour, to be exact. The train itself was clean, and
the upholstered seats were a bright turquoise color. It was very similar, I
thought, to the train that connects to the airport in Hong Kong.

We took the maglev to the Luijazui stop, which is located on the
Pudong—eastern—side of the River that cuts through the city. Ben and Andre had
reservations at the Grand Hyatt, which is where we were staying for the night.

Everything about the hotel was luxurious: granite and marble everywhere. For
some reason—although I’ve seen it in other hotels of this caliber—the lobby
started at the sixty-sixth floor. We got out of the elevator and walked into the
bar area. It offered a grand view over the city. We continued to another
elevator that led to the rooms. We stepped out and turned the corner, and now I
could see that all of the hallways on every floor orbited a vast openness in the
center. Each floor had a wooden balcony railing, and a part of the railing
jutted out a bit, offering an area were one could lean over and take in the
scene. There were many floors; at a certain vantage point, all of the railings
ran together, and since the observation areas were staggered, it created the
illusion of a giant cylindrical capsule with spiraling, ribbed walls. The sight
would have been vertigo-inducing, like out of a dream sequence, if it weren’t
for the floor at the very bottom.

We walked into the room that Ben and I would be sharing. He had used his miles
to upgrade to the Diamond Suite. It was truly exotic, and as I noticed the decor
and furniture, I had the thought that if whoever had been tasked to design the
interior of the hotel had previously designed an art museum, I would not have
been surprised. The bathroom was especially exquisite—marble wall to wall with
glass wrapping around the shower. But it was the toilet that was the most
interesting for me. It was Japanese, and as such, it provided all kinds of
services for the user. Upon walking by, it opened automatically, as if to
gesture a welcome. If you planned on staying for a while, it could also play
your favorite music and even offer a refreshing spray to clear away any leftover
particulates after you were through. As for me, I didn’t dare to put the toilet
to the test. I just thought it was creepy.

After we were sufficiently impressed, Ben, Andre and I exited the hotel and took
the Metro—the excellent subway system in Shanghai—to Din Tai Fung, a highly
regarded restaurant in the city and all across Asia. It’s located, as are the
other instances, inside of a mall. I’d been to one with Ben in Hong Kong, so I
already knew how good the food was here, but I was pleasantly surprised this
time. We ordered dumplings, a signature dish that came out in stacks of round
wooden containers, as well as potstickers, vegetables, and rice. I thoroughly
enjoyed it and ate plentifully.

We headed back to the hotel after that. Even though it was only nine o’clock, it
was time for everyone to retire. I, particularly, hadn’t slept on the plane
ride, and after the large meal, I began to get tired. I managed to stay up a
little bit, but soon after getting under the covers and laying my head down, I
slept like a log.
