---
title: "Asia: Day 7"
date: 2016-03-03
features:
- a hop, skip, and a jump
- a ridiculous amount of walking
- a home away from home
---

Today was my last day that I had arranged to be at the hostel in Shanghai. I
had met a fellow in my dorm—he was from a little country next to Romania
originally and had been teaching English in Shanghai for a few years—and he had
recommended that I get out of the big city and spend some time in Hangzhou. I
liked Shanghai, but I was growing bored with seeing shops, fancy restaurants,
and, well, *money* all over the place. I wanted some charm, some history, some
sense of everydayness. From my new friend’s description, Hangzhou sounded just
like the place.

He mentioned that there was a high-speed train connecting Shanghai and Hangzhou.
By the morning, I had already booked a hostel for Hangzhou, so all I would have
to do is take the green line all the way to Hongqiao Railway Station, buy a
ticket for the train, and I would be on my way.

I checked out of the hostel and made my way across the city to the train
station. I followed the flow of traffic up and out, and when I was on ground
level again, I found myself in a great room. There were people everywhere, and
hallways extended in all directions.

I needed a train ticket, and fortunately, I could buy one directly ahead. There
were five booths and a line of people waiting in front of each one. An
electronic board ran across the top, identifying each line with a number, a
range of times, and a series of Chinese characters. I stared at the board. There
was no English, and there didn’t seem to be any logic to the lines, either—the
time ranges crossed over one other, so that one read “03:00-15:00”, another
“02:00-17:00”.

What was I going to do? I walked around for a bit. I found another row of booths
around the corner, but it was exactly the same as the first. I needed to talk to
someone. I backtracked and came to an information desk. The lady behind it
seemed to be busy, but there were men standing guard in front. I went up to one
of them. “Hi,” I said. “Hi,” he said back. “I need to go to Shanghai,” I said,
limiting my English in case he didn’t understand much. He pointed to the ticket
office. “Which line?” I asked, using my hands to visually depict the concept of
a line. “32,” he said.

Okay. Now we were getting somewhere. I stood in the line, and when it was my
turn, I simply said, “Shanghai,” giving the man behind the counter my passport.
He wordlessly punched some keys on his computer, chose the first time, and said
the amount in English. It wasn’t much—about eighty yuan, or twelve dollars—and
after I paid, he gave me the ticket.

I stepped away and studied it. It was blue, and it listed my name along with the
date and time the train would leave. It also had two numbers, one which I
mistook for the platform number but was actually the car number, and one which
was the seat number on the car.

Where was I supposed to go now? I went out into the great hallway and looked
around. There were giant signs that led north, south, east, and west. Which one
was the right one? Maybe the direction was listed on the ticket itself. I stared
at the signs and noticed that each direction had an associated Chinese
character. I read the ticket again, but I couldn’t find any of those characters
on it.

Stumped, I went back to the information desk and asked one of the guards for
help. This time, it was a different man, and when I showed him the ticket and
asked, “Which direction?”, he simply gestured forward, down the hallway. I
briefly thought about asking him something else, but I figured that I should
just do what he said. I started walking forward, and as I did so, I noticed that
I had missed the sign that indicated that passengers for future trains should go
to floor 2. Well, that’s where I was going now, so I was in great shape.

The second floor was enormous, as it was completely devoted to providing areas
where people could wait for their trains to arrive. I was imagining that all of
it would be outside. But being on the inside made more sense; I realized that
this whole operation was like an airport, but for trains.

When the designated time came, an announcement played over the loudspeaker: the
train bound for Hangzhou would be leaving, and passengers should get ready for
their tickets to be checked. Lines formed; people were putting their ticket
through a machine, which spit it out and opened a gate to the train. I did the
same and stepped outside. The train was stationed there. There were multiple
cars to enter, so I found the one that corresponded to the one on my ticket,
went inside, and found my seat.

Whew. That had been easy enough.

---

The train ride was pleasant, and I saw fields and factories and rows of houses
and apartments, which looked older as time went on.

After an hour or so, the train stopped at Hangzhou’s train station, and everyone
filed out. This station was a building similar to the one in Shanghai, and there
was a subway stop here that led further into the city. I followed the steps
down, but I was wary; I didn’t know if my Shanghai Metro card worked here. I
could buy a single ticket if I wanted, but I didn’t know how much it cost, and I
was scared of using a machine, as I didn’t know if it offered an easy way to
switch to English.

A man sat at a small booth, and I wondered if he could help me. I held up my
Shanghai card and asked, “Does this work?”, pointing to hallway down to the
Metro. He shook his head, and gestured to the ticket machines.

That wouldn’t do. I considered standing in line for the entrance gates and
attempting to swipe my card anyway, but then what if it didn’t work? I’d block
the flow of traffic, everybody would be angry at me—it wouldn’t be a fun time.

So I decided that I would make the trek to the hostel on foot instead. I
side-stepped the entrance and walked the length of the hallway and stepped out
into the sunlight. It was warmer here than in Shanghai, and I realized that
there was no water here for the wind to whip off of, no tall buildings for it to
funnel through.

There was one small problem with walking to the hostel. Like the night before, I
didn’t exactly know where it was. I had a rough memory of the location from
looking at a map earlier, and I had the same map on my phone that I could use
for reference. I just didn't have the location itself.

No matter, though. I would simply feel it out again and develop a plan on the
way.

I knew that I had to follow a major road. So I set off. It was easy to tell I
wasn’t in Shanghai anymore. I was surrounded in a sea of Chinese—the only
English present was printed on street signs. That made me a little worried. I
had the thought of spending the day here and then going back to Shanghai in the
evening. But I’d already spent money on the hostel, and that seemed like taking
the easy way out.

Besides, this place was different. There was a little more chaos here: people
walked partly in the streets, there was active construction going on in the
middle of the sidewalk or road—it just felt more villagey.

While I was taking in the view, I was trying over and over to get my phone to
connect to a VPN. This would allow me to get around China’s firewall, which had
been preventing me from accessing Google Maps. Back at the hostel in Shanghai, I
had been able to connect my computer to the VPN without any issues. But my phone
was a different story; it had failed to connect every time. I knew that it was
because my phone was so slow, any requests that it made were timing out. But I
kept trying anyway. The fact that I wasn’t able to get online when I was out and
about was really eating at me, and I was desperate to resolve the situation.

After thirty minutes, I came to a McDonald’s. By this point, my phone was down
to about 15%. I needed to stop fiddling with it. It would really be bad if I had
no phone at all. I started thinking about some place to plug in. Perhaps the
McDonald’s had outlets. I quickly went in and looked around. No luck. Darn.

My backpack was heavy, and I began to wish that I had thought a little hard
about what exclude from it before I’d left. But I couldn’t do anything about
that now. I needed to sit down. I could go inside McDonald’s, but that would
mean I’d have to buy something, and it didn’t seem like they spoke English
there. I scanned the area. A man was resting on a ledge in front of some other
establishment nearby. That would do nicely. I sat down, looked up, and noticed
it was a hotel. Maybe I could seek help from them? But I quickly waved that
thought away. I needed an outlet, and I didn’t need any help—yet.

Just then, a thought flashed in my mind: I had a battery pack for my phone in my
backpack! I thanked past me for thinking ahead for once, and I connected my
phone to it.

Relieved that I had a little more time on my hands, I got up and kept walking. I
started thinking: if I owned a hostel, where would I put it? Not on a major
road, surely. I crossed the street at an intersection onto a road that had a lot
of little units all stuck together. There were mostly shops here, and it looked
a little touristy. But I felt like I was getting warmer.

Oh, but what was I thinking? This was madness. I would have to go up and down
every single street to find this place, and how long would that take me? I had
to admit it: stopping at a hotel and asking them for help had worked the night
before. I backtracked; there had been one at the intersection.

I walked in. Three of the clerks were idle. I walked up to the counter. “Do you
speak English?” I said, trying not to look too desperate. One of them pulled out
a piece of paper. “Write down,” she said. Okay—that would be fine for one
question, but what I really wanted to know was whether any of them had a
translation app I could use to communicate. So I asked them through the paper
and handed it back.

They conferred with each other. They were stuck on the word “translation”. One
of them pulled out a phone, tapped something in, and handed it to me. He had
opened up a dictionary app and had attempted to enter the word; it was
misspelled. They pointed to the word on the page. “Type this,” he said.

I corrected the word and handed it back. They conferred some more, although they
seemed to have less confused looks on their faces now. “Are you trying to say
something in Chinese?” one of them said.

“Yes,” I said. *Wait. Did he just speak English? He just spoke English!* “I’m
trying to get somewhere,” I said, looking him in the eye. “Do you know what a
hostel is?”

“Yes,” he said, coming over from behind the counter. “Like a hotel?”

“Right,” I said. “Like a hotel. So—I’m trying to get to my hostel, but I don’t
know where it is.”

He smiled uncomfortably. “You don’t have the address?”

“No,” I said. “I know. But—it’s in my phone! I can’t access my email, though—I
haven’t been able to get good cell service out here. But if I connect to your
wifi, then I can find the address. Would it be possible for me to do that?”

He hesitated for a bit, but then he took my phone, punched in the wifi password,
and gave it back. I quickly connected to the VPN, which happened instantly, and
voilá—my email loaded fully. I took a deep breath. Everything was going to be
okay. “Alright,” I said, showing him the address. “Do you know where this is?”

He squinted at the screen, then took the phone for closer inspection. He gave it
back. He wasn’t sure. “Wait, there is a phone number,” he said, taking it from
my hands. “Oh, it’s fine, I can find where it is now,” I said. But he insisted,
so I didn’t argue.

While he was typing in the number, I went back to my email. When I had booked
the hostel in Shanghai, I had received two emails, one from Hostelworld, the
other from the hostel itself. I swiped back to the inbox, and sure enough, there
was a second email. Helpfully, it contained the address in Chinese. I quickly
showed it to him, and his face suddenly brightened. I showed him that I had
Baidu installed, and he used it to copy the address and paste it there. It
worked! I wasn’t lost anymore!

I thanked him profusely for his help, walked out of the hotel, and followed the
pulsing dot on the map. It turns out that I hadn’t been too far off. I crossed
the street again, went a few blocks, rounded a corner, came to an intersection,
and eventually turned onto a narrow street. It was much quietier here than the
main streets. The buildings looked ancient, too, like the ones at Yu Garden. The
outer walls were white plaster, cracking, yellowed or blackened as though from
fire; the frames were dark brown wood; the shingles were cement.

A “Hostel International” sign hung from the side of a doorway. *This must be
it,* I thought. I opened the door. There were lots of tables and people here.
This wasn’t right. A young girl greeted me. “Are you here to eat?”

“Eat?” I said. “I’m staying at the hostel.”

“Oh,” she said brightly. “It’s next door.”

Interesting! Maybe they were connected?

I went next door. There was a desk. Perfect. I checked in,  received my key, and
went to my room, which was located upstairs, around the corner, and up some more
stairs. It was a peculiar setup, but it seemed very charming. The room was
clean, too, and best of all, it was private. I liked this place.

I dropped off my backpack and went back downstairs. That restaurant looked nice,
so I figured I would give it a try. The young girl recognized me from earlier
and asked her question again. “Eat?” “Yes,” I said this time. She led me to a
table and I sat down.

The place was humming. If this were connected to the hostel, it was obviously
very popular with the locals. It was nice and cozy. American music was streaming
over the speakers. The choice of decor was bright and eclectic. I liked this
place too.

I ordered a bowl of beef and fish, which came out hotpot-style, as well some
kimchi soup and baked, wedged potatoes seasoned with cumin. The food tasted
great after a long day of walking.

I looked over. A mom had her kid on her lap, and they were watching some kind of
show on a phone, which was propped up on the table. I watched the screen. It was
Curious George! Interesting. Maybe English was spoken more widely here than I
thought.

---

I got back to the room with a full stomach and a fresh outlook. I was happy.
