---
title: "Asia: Day 6"
date: 2016-03-02
features:
- a newfound respect for China
- a quest for food
- a bridge across the language barrier
---

Since Ben left, I had been spent a lot of time walking around and taking the
subway, but I hadn’t really accomplished anything. If I was going to wander, I
at least wanted it to be meaningful. So after a quick breakfast at the hostel
and some research, I decided to go the [Shanghai
Museum](http://www.shanghaimuseum.net/en).

Getting to the Museum was easy: all I had to do was take the green line from
East Nanjing to People’s Square. The museum seemed to be located within a park,
and when I reached the edge, a sign directed me to go further into it. After
several minutes, I came to a large fountain, and people were gathered there. The
museum, the only large building in the immediate area, was to the right, up a
few steps. It was free to the public, and I was pleased to learn I did not need
to show any identification.

There were four floors with two different areas on each floor for exhibits. On
this day, there were two that I found interesting.

One exhibit covered the history of ceramic production in China between the Shang
dynasty (17th-century B.C.) and the Qing dynasty (17th- to 20th-century A.D.).
It was fascinating to observe the evolution in design as different materials
became available and the production techniques became more involved over time.
The first flatware was basic: brown clay, likely mixed with some other substance
to bind it together during the heating process. A lead-based glaze was added to
the pottery some time later, and it could be colored by adding copper or iron to
the glaze powder. A millenia or two later, technology and process had improved
greatly so that the flatware produced during this period can properly be called
porcelain. As the materials improved, the embellishments became more
sophisticated. Artists had other ingredients they could use to color their
works, as well: manganese and cobalt. A few dynasties later, artists developed
new techniques such as marbling, where brown and white clay were sandwiched
together to create such effects as wood grain. They also experimented
design-wise, creating all sorts of shapes and sizes and painting linework on the
outside. The flatware that came out of the Yuan dynasty in the 14th century A.D.
is very distinguishable: it is characterized by an ivory white base decorated
elaborately using a bluish glaze. This technique was improved during the Ming
and Hongzhi periods by applying different layers of glaze (now called underglaze
and overglaze) as well as developing new colors: white, red, and yellow. Later,
designs became simpler again, and other colors were added—green, purple, brown,
black—and even other shades entirely. Finally, the production quality rose so
high that other substances could be emulated entirely: gold, silver, stone,
wood, jade, or bronze.

In America, the word “china” is synonymous with high-quality, high-dollar plates
and bowls. The most prized china is usually pure white in color, although many
colors, shapes, and sizes are available, and it is produced by many companies,
such as Syracuse. We can reasonably guess from the name that china must have
originally come from China, but that is the limit to common knowledge. And so it
was fascinating to learn that not only did the Chinese invent porcelain
outright, but they became experts at it and were able to produce very high
quality pieces within a few centuries. In writing this blog entry, I also
learned that the recipe they used to create the porcelain material was a secret
before Europeans reverse-engineered it in the 1600s.

I spent a couple of hours in the ceramic exhibit, and after that I strolled
through the bronze exhibit. Unfortunately, my camera ran out of battery halfway
through it, so I wasn’t able to get as many pictures as I wanted. Still, it was
interesting to learn that at the same time that Chinese people were busy
inventing porcelain, they were also developing better ways of producing bronze.
The first uses of bronze, between 18th- to 2th-century B.C., were to make food
and drink vessels involved in ritual ceremonies. The design looks very tribal;
an animal mask was a common decorative element of these early containers. As
time progressed and rituals became less of a practice, everyday dishes, bowls,
and vases began to be produced instead. The technology improved, too. The bronze
mixture, consisting of copper, tin and lead, was experimented with to produce
various weights. Artists could build more complex pieces using molding
techniques, too. Wax was a common material used for molds, as it melted away
during the baking stage and meant that the final piece could be left intact
without interference. Development of bronze stalled after a certain point,
though, and did not reach nearly the same level of craftmanship as porcelain
did.

---

After another hour or so at the museum, I returned to the hostel at around
seven. At that point, I was hungry. I clicked around TripAdvisor for a bit and
managed to find a new restaurant, [Southern
Barbarian](http://www.tripadvisor.com/Restaurant_Review-g308272-d948160-Reviews-Southern_Barbarian-Shanghai.html),
that received a fair number of stars. One commenter mentioned that it was a
little difficult to find, but I was confident that it wouldn’t be an issue.
It was located close by—it couldn’t be that hard.

I took the Metro to West Nanjing and stepped outside. As I am accustomed to
doing, I pulled up a map on my phone with the intent to follow it until I
arrived. But what I’d forgotten was that the cell service gods had not been kind
to me in Shanghai. And tonight my luck dipped to an all-time low: I could not
zoom the map in, and I could not pull up the exact address of the restaurant.

Here’s all I knew: it was south of the Metro station. Of course, the best
option, the smartest option, would probably have been to turn around and head
back. But not me! No sir. I was determined to find this four-star restaurant,
and a little thing like lack of cell reception couldn’t stop me.

So I was in a pickle. But I did have one resource, and that was Lori. It was
five in the morning for her—she happened to be up—but I needed her help. So for
the next thirty minutes, I walked, and she attempted to direct me. I crossed a
major road. It was dark outside. I kept going, and I kept trying to pull up
something, anything, on my phone. She even tried to send me an image of my
location. No go. It was frustrating, but I at least had the sense that I was
closer. Eventually, I told her not to worry about it and to go back to sleep. I
would figure it out. One way or another, I told myself, I would get there.

I’d remembered from the TripAdvisor page that someone had left a comment saying
you had to pass through a courtyard. Well, I had come across a hotel, and it had
a courtyard. Could it be in here? That would make the most sense. I ventured
inside the complex, then stopped. It didn’t seem right. I circled the block. No,
it didn’t seem right at all. I paced up and down side streets. Yes, the
restaurant was out of the way, but I kept thinking that surely there would be a
sign in front that I would randomly stumble upon.

It was nine-thirty. The restaurant closed in an hour, and I needed a new plan. I
was a few blocks away from the first hotel I’d found by now, and I didn’t know
how to get back to it, but there was another hotel that I’d passed twice. Surely
the people there were familiar with the area and had some idea of where this
place was.

I ventured inside. “*Nihao*,” I said to the lady at the front.

“*Nihao*,” she said.

“Do you speak English?” I asked. I may have been desperate, but I didn’t want to
bombard her if she didn’t understand me.

She gave me a blank stare for a moment, then called over her colleague, another
lady, from the back. They traded places. 

“Hi,” the second lady said.

“Hi,” I said. “I am looking for a restaurant. Can you help me?”

She smiled awkwardly, then quickly turned to the first lady and asked her for
something. So no English from her, either, I guess. Well, this would be
interesting.

The lady handed a phone to me, and I stared at it for a second. There were a
list of sentences. My eyes scanned the screen quickly. The first sentence said,
“What can I do for you, young man?” Was this a canned list of responses? All of
the buttons were in Chinese. I didn’t know what to do.

The woman read my confused expression, grabbed the phone, tapped something,
handed it back. Now the interface was in English. It was a translation app.
Perfect.

I typed, “I need to find a restaurant. It is called Southern Barbarian,” and
gave her back the phone so she could study it.

She gave a perplexed look and mouthed the words, “I do not know…”

I took the phone from her hands and typed, “My phone has a bad connection. My
internet does not work,” before giving it back.

Her expression softened. “Wifi?”

“Yeah,” I said. “Wifi.”

She took my phone and configured it so that I was connected to the internet
provided by the lobby. Once it was back in my hands, I hastily used it to bring
up Google Maps. Except…I was in China, and that wouldn’t work. Right. I did have
Baidu installed on my phone, but its interface was all in Chinese, including the
streets, so that wasn’t going to help me, either. Okay, plan B, then. I pulled
up the page for the restaurant on TripAdvisor and showed the address to the
lady. “Do you know where this is?” I said.

She was having trouble understanding. But there was a phone number, and she
picked up the phone and dialed it. I waited as she talked to whoever was on the
other line. Maybe this would finally work! After a while, she typed something
into the translation app. “Are you looking for Nanmanzi Yunnan?”

I didn’t know what that meant, and shook my head. She resumed talking. I really
hoped this would work. She hung up the phone eventually and typed something
else. “She came here to meet you.”

Of course, she meant, “She is coming here to meet you,” and that was certainly
nice of the restaurant manager to do that. So I waited some more and stood to
the side as the front lady attended to other guests who had shown up. Finally,
at ten, a woman walked through the door, noticed me, and asked, “Were you the
one trying to get to the restaurant?”

“Yes!” I said. I had never been so relieved that someone could speak proper
English.

“Follow me,” she said. So I did. She led me down the street, took a left, went
down the street some more, and then took another left. I really *had* been
close! Sure enough, the building had a sign out front, although the place was in
the back, down a dark hallway, and up a short flight of stairs. I wasn’t so sure
that even if I *had* known exactly where this place had been that I’d been able
to find it. 

I sat down. It was late, and I didn’t feel like making any more decisions. The
waiter suggested a mint salad and some kind of beef dish. That sounded great. He
brought the food after a short wait, and I scarfed it down.

I sat back. Strangely, I was underwhelmed. It wasn’t as good as I hoped it would
be. Maybe I’d ordered the wrong thing, but it wasn’t very interesting. There had
to be better options in Shanghai.

Well, that didn’t matter now. It was almost eleven now, and Lori had reminded me
that the subway would close at eleven-thirty. I quickly paid, said thank you,
and headed out. Fortunately, now that I knew where I was, it was a quick walk to
the Metro station. The place was nearly empty. What would I do if the train
didn’t come? But it did, and I was back at the hostel and in bed by twelve.

---

There were two things that I would take away from this encounter. The first is
that we—myself included—have an underappreciation for how far technology has
come. Now I no longer had to be so afraid of talking to someone who spoke a
different language than I, because if either of us had a phone with a
translation app, then we could say what we wanted to say.

The second thing is that from then on, I would make sure to never walk out of
the door without having some kind of offline form of directions. But, as we’ll
see later, I had to learn that lesson twice before it truly stuck.
