---
title: "Siem Reap & Phnom Penh"
date: 2016-04-09
---

I had a certain impression about Cambodia before I came. I was told that it was
the wild west: there were no rules, there were no gun laws, crime was rampant,
and the streets were dangerous.

Now, part of that is true, but it’s also bit of a misrepresentation. For
instance, civilians can’t legally own guns in Cambodia. However, there are a
couple of military bases where, as long as you are willing to pony up the money,
you can legally shoot all kinds of guns, even rocket launchers. It is not
unheard of for wild animals to be used as target practice, as there are no laws
against it. Still, you won’t find posters or flyers on the streets encouraging
tourists to shoot guns. It’s not exactly an underground thing, but you have to
inquire about it.

As for crime, it’s true that petty theft is a real possibility. For instance, I
have heard first- and second-hand accounts of pickpocketers getting away with
wallets, as well as men on motorcycles stealing bags or phones right out of
people’s hands and driving off before they can be caught. This type of behavior
isn’t exactly unique to Cambodia; there is always a potential for some about of
danger in any city where there are a lot of tourists and crowds of people. But
Cambodia is a poor country. There are plenty of people selling street food for
two dollars a meal, and the cities are plain and simple—even the capital, Phnom
Penh, is free of the luxury that is easy to find in places like Bangkok or
Shanghai. I don’t know if theft happens more often in Cambodia than, say in
Thailand, but if did, then it would make sense. A hundred dollars goes a long
way; a phone is a fortune.

Even so, I did not get the sense that Cambodia was dangerous or unsafe; I did
not feel like as soon I stepped into the country, I was risking my life.
However, I was also on alert all of the time (as one should be). For instance,
up to now I had been keeping a wallet on me, but I knew that would have to start
hiding my money better. A money belt is very cool because you can place cash in
a flat pouch and wear it across your waist and underneath your shirt. In fact, I
even tested whether or not it would be a necessity. On day one, when I was in
Siem Reap, I risked going around town with a wallet. I was sitting at a table
next to a food stand when a young boy walked up to me. He must have immediately
spotted the wallet in my pocket, because he started poking at it. I think he was
more curious than mischievous, but he saw it within about thirty seconds—so
imagine if he had been a thief!

Besides this, I also made sure not to use my phone too much in public. This was
more out of respect for the people than for safety, but if I did need to use it,
then I stepped away from the street and shielded it from anyone else’s eyes
before slipping it back in my pocket.

Finally, I even dressed in a long-sleeved shirt and khakis in order to blend in
with the locals. In Phnom Penh, the hotel where I stayed was located on one of
the main avenues along the river, and it was always full of traffic. It was also
lined with plenty of tuk-tuk drivers who were stationed on the side of the
street, all too eager for your business. So as soon as I stepped out, I
heard—“Hello? Sir? Tuk-tuk? Hello?” I got very good at simply pretending like I
didn’t hear them and staring straight ahead. I always had to know where I was
going, too, because the second that I looked like I was lost, then I would be
noticed. Together with the change in clothes, I think this helped in reducing
the number of calls.

---

So what did I do in Cambodia? The primary attraction that I wanted to see was
Angkor, an ancient city lying several kilometers north of Siem Reap, built by
the Khmer Empire starting in the 9th century A.D. Most of the city is gone now,
but what remains are the temple complex of Angkor Wat and other supporting
temples. As I didn’t want to pay extra money I considered taking a bicycle
there, renting one for a day and riding it around town to see how well it would
work. But it was very hot outside, and in the end I settled on a tuk-tuk.

I rose at four-thirty in the morning, and the tuk-tuk driver first took me to
Angkor Wat to watch the sunrise. As it is a common thing to do, there were very
many other people there, and they were mostly stationed in front of a pool which
sits in front of the entrance to the temple, although there were other people
roaming elsewhere too. Everyone—everyone!—had a camera. As the sun rose, the sky
gradually got lighter, and we could make out the signature spires of the temple
rising above the horizon.

I thought that Angkor Wat was neat, but there wasn’t actually that much to it;
it was mostly an open courtyard with a few towers in the center surrounded by a
corridor. It was the other, smaller temples that really piqued my interest. At
Angkor Thom, there were a garden of towers; the center one was ornate, and the
others around it had giant faces carved into each side. At Ta Prohm, giant trees
had taken over; some had made themselves part of the wall around the temple,
others were shooting straight out of the temple itself. And the ancientness of
the place was evident, as everything was in a state of ruin. For structures that
still remained, the stone blocks with which they were composed were weathered,
aged, rounded, blackened or covered with moss. Sometimes entire walls were in
pieces, which lay across the ground or sat organized in neat stacks, waiting to
be put back together again.

When I’d arrived in Siem Reap, I didn’t have a hostel booked beforehand, so I
found one by simply walking around. That was a first for me: usually I spend
some time finding a reasonable place to sleep online. I wouldn’t have done it a
month ago, but by now, I’d stayed in enough hostels to where it didn’t really
matter where I slept, as long as the place looked relatively clean enough and
the people were approachable. The hostel I chose actually turned out to be a
decent decision, because I met a few people in the room who provided good
conversation and company.

Other than the temples, Siem Reap didn’t have that much to offer, and when I got
to Phnom Penh I decided to change things up and stay in a hotel for five nights.
That was a good decision, too, because it gave me a chance to relax. At first I
was unhappy with the location of the hotel, because, as I’ve mentioned, it sat
on a busy road by the river where tuk-tuks liked to hang out. But by the end of
my visit there, I became accustomed to it, and I even learned to like it.

While I was in Phnom Penh, I wanted to get a sense of the history behind the
country, and so I decided to go to Choeng Ek, otherwise known as the Killing
Fields. In the ‘70s, following the Vietnam War, the country was taken over by a
communist regime led by Pol Pot. He was convinced that the best society was the
one where the common people were poor and the leaders were rich, and so he drove
people out of the cities to work on farms—essentially enslavement camps. Then he
rounded up all of the educated—teachers, doctors, those who spoke a foreign
language, even those who were glasses—as well as the “traitors”—anyone who had
opposed the government in any way, whether actual or suspected—and had them
shipped to places where they were executed and buried in mass graves. Over two
million Cambodians were killed while Pol Pot was in power, and the places where
it happened,  the killing fields, were scattered throughout the country. Most of
them were disassembled and abandoned after Pol Pot was driven from power, but
one of these killing fields remains in Phnom Penh to serve as a museum. When
Choeng Ek was discovered, the mass graves were dug up, and now there are bones
and skulls and tatters of clothes on display. But it is a peaceful place—it used
to be an orchard—and as I listened to an audio tour and walked around slowly, I
struggled to imagine the horrors that went on here.

---

Would I recommend going to Cambodia? Yes, of course, and I’m sure there are more
places to see than just Siem Reap and Phnom Penh (for instance, I hear that the
islands along the southern coast are nice). But would *I* go back? That’s always
a question I have to ask myself. In this case, I think I would—but not as a
tourist. I felt like I was welcome in the country, as welcome as any other
foreigner at least, but at the same time I also felt a little ashamed.
Cambodians seem to live simple lives, and the lack of money there was
perceptible, more so than any other place I’ve been to so far. In some ways it
was refreshing, but in other ways I thought I was intruding. If an opportunity
arose to do some kind of humanitarian work there, however, then I would perhaps
consider it.
