---
title: "Penang, Bangkok, Chiang Mai"
date: 2016-04-02
---

I realize that I’ve fallen behind on the blog posts recently, so I thought I’d
write up a summary of what’s been happening in the past few weeks.

After leaving Langkawi, I spent a few more days in Penang. One of the people I
met in Singapore had mentioned a hostel called House of Journey that she really
liked, so I thought I would try it out. I really liked it. The decor was very
pleasant, the space was lively, and I could tell that the owners really paid
attention to the details, such as making sure to put hooks on the beds for
people to hang their towels. In fact, it’s my favorite of all the hostels I’ve
been to so far. It’s a lot of other people’s favorite too: they have a wall
where you can write your name and some kind of message, and there were a hundred
messages from enthusiastic guests.

While I was there, I met a group of people from various countries and hung out
with them for a couple of nights. They were all mostly nice, except one guy was
a bit of a narcissist and another guy was macking on one of the girls the whole
time (and hooked up with her later, but we won’t go into that). So I didn’t
spend enough time with them to feel part of the group, but I did manage to
briefly connect with this German girl who was worried over this guy in Germany
she liked.

After that, I flew from Penang to Bangkok. Bangkok is a great city, but it takes
a little while to get used to. It is very busy; there are traffic jams all over
the place; the subway is often crowded; the streets are too narrow and are often
blocked with stands for selling street food stands or tables for selling goods;
it is hot and humid. But good food is plentiful and public transportation offers
myriad ways to get around. And because there are so many streets, it is very
easy to get lost—but it is often rewarding and fun.

The hostel where I stayed, Oasis, was great, too. The owners were super cool and
would hang out with us at night and ask about our day. Being travelers
themselves, they had lots of advice about places to see and ways to get there.

While I was there, I met a couple from Germany and a girl from Holland. As I got
to know them, I learned that they were going to Chiang Mai—a city in north
Thailand—for a few days. I hadn’t planned on going there, but they were very
nice, and I felt like continuing the camaraderie. The Dutch girl and I made
plans to meet them there the next day, where we met another German guy and two
more German girls. Together the seven of us took a trekking trip to a couple of
the villages in northern Thailand, where we got to ride elephants, hike to some
waterfalls, and raft down the river. The countryside there was absolutely
gorgeous—hardly touched by human activity.

We split up when we got back to Chiang Mai: they wanted to go to back to the
countryside, to Pai, whereas I wanted to continue onto Siem Reap. So I said
goodbye to them and took a flight to Cambodia. I was a little nervous about
getting into the country, but it ended up being really easy: as long as you have
a passport photo and 30 USD, you can get a visa on arrival, and then you’re in.

---

By the way, I’m now a little over a month into my journey through Asia. It’s a
little hard to believe that I’ve been to so many places and seen so many things
in so short a time period. And at first, I was admittedly a little nervous about
the whole thing. How would I get into these countries? What would I do there?
How did hostels work? But the more things I’ve seen, the more confident I’ve
become. I am not, by any means, a veteran—I am not willing to take on anything,
at least yet. But the basic worries I had are nearly gone, and that means that I
am motivated to take on new challenges as they arise. And that’s kind of neat.
