---
title: "Asia: Day 22"
date: 2016-03-17
features:
- a smaller island
- some inferior digs
- an organized collection of street food
---

After walking around for a few hours in Penang, I had concluded that I wasn’t
going to find the beach that I wanted to see and I needed to leave. I didn’t
know a lot about Langkawi, but my thought was that since it was smaller than
Penang, it would be less populated and more private. At the same time, I still
needed to get to Bangkok at some point, and there were two ways of doing that.
If I liked Langkawi, I could hop to another island and keep going up until I
reached Phuket. Or, if I wanted to stop, I could take a ferry to the mainland of
Thailand. Either way, my hope was that eventually I would find a stop for the
train that would take me all the way to Bangkok.

The ferry took off at 2:00pm, and I needed to buy a ticket. I checked out of the
hostel, grabbed food, and walked around, taking pictures along the way. But I
didn’t keep an eye on the time, and when I reached the ticket office, it was
already 1:50. Both of the agents there were quick to remind me of this, but it
was no problem; ten minutes would be plenty of time. I opened my wallet to pay.
Oops. I didn’t have the necessary seventy *ringgit*—I had spent my last fifty on
breakfast, it seemed. Well, that was a problem. Fortunately, the lady said there
was an ATM down the street. I rushed down, pulled out another two hundred, came
back at 1:58, and purchased the ticket. Now I had to race to the jetty. The lady
pointed me around the corner, down the street, and mentioned that I needed to go
to the first floor. A portable gate stood in the way, but I figured it was only
for cars, so I slipped through it and went ahead.

Eventually I spotted a small building, and other travelers were going inside. As
I followed them, I noticed that there was an escalator. Maybe by the first floor
the lady meant the second floor? I took it up and found myself in a hallway.
There weren’t any signs, but I followed the traffic and came to a place where a
few booths lined the room. One of them said “Penang to Langkawi”, and I went up
and asked the lady there where the ferry left. She said it was up ahead, but she
needed the ticket I had bought first. I gave it to her, and she gave me a
boarding pass back. It was laminated, and it had an orange sticker on it that
designated which passenger I was. So they were pre-printed, I thought. That was
clever.

I went past the booth, turned a corner, and came to a wider hall which split
into two sides at the end, one for arrival, the other for departure. Naturally,
I came to the departure side first, but it looked deserted; there were only five
people waiting there. I became concerned. Could the ferry have left already? I
popped over to the other side. It was exactly the opposite: the place was
buzzing. Something was going on here. I knew for a fact that there were only
three departure times for the ferry, and Penang to Langkawi was the only route.
It reminded me of the train at JB Sentral Station, where because there was one
route, there was only one reason for people to line up. I figured that it was
the same here. I went back over to the departure side and inquired from one of
the passengers there. Yes, he, like everyone, was leaving on the same ferry—it
was just that was no other place to sit. Okay. I felt better.

Fifteen minutes later—ten minutes late—a man came out and waved us outside.
Everyone got up, and we filed out and down a drawbridge. The boat was parked on
the water there. It was medium-sized and covered. We ducked our heads as we
stepped inside, turning to the right. Luggage had been piled in the corner ahead
of the rows. There were two sides, four seats on one and four on the other. A
small shelf lined each wall, packed with life jackets wrapped in plastic bags.
The ceiling was low. It was made of plywood, painted in glossy mustard yellow
and turquoise-blue. Hanging from the ceiling were flags of different Southeast
Asian countries, and spread across the top was a large Malaysian flag, which
looks somewhat like the American flag. In the very front, an old square TV sat
in the corner.

---

The boat ride was very smooth, and after three hours, we arrived in Langkawi. I
stepped off the boat and walked around the ferry station. I knew judging by a
map that I wasn’t anywhere near my hostel. Even though it would be relatively
expensive to take a taxi, I didn’t see another option. I walked back outside and
located a driver, who gave me a price that I thought was fair. He didn’t speak
much English, so I sat in the back silently as he took me to my destination.

I paid, got out, and checked into the hostel. The agent there went inside to
give me a tour, and I followed him. Immediately, once I saw the space, my heart
began to sink. This place was cheap. All of the bunkbeds were located in one big
room, and two rooms opened off of that. There were no pictures on the walls and
no colors present in the room. Nor were there windows, the only light coming
from a single ceiling lamp. The beds were low, and the mattresses were very hard
and thin. A counter and a sink occupied the space in the corner next to a
fridge. The bathrooms were messy, and different kinds of shampoos and soaps,
left over from previous guests, were piled up at the head of the tub. The
showers were inconveniently located outside the building. Lastly, there were no
lockers to keep personal items safe.

I wasn’t impressed, but I had to remember that it was a hostel, and not every
one of them could be a slam dunk. I dropped my backpack off. I was hungry, and
someone mentioned that there was a night market down the street. Cool! I loved
markets. I trekked down the street. It was dark outside by now, but I could
still perceive that I was in a different place than I’d been before. Shanghai,
Hangzhou, Singapore, KL, Penang—all of them had paved streets, cars, buildings,
and pedestrians—city stuff. Here, the air was quieter, houses were spread out,
the roads were more basic, and motorbikes were the primary means of
transportation.

Soon I reached an area where cars were parked and a whole host of tents were set
up. I walked in and looked around. There were many different options here: fried
chicken, satay, small sausage balls, kuey teow—a noodle dish—and various kinds
of drinks. And it was all very cheap: each item was one to ten *ringgit*, and
you could have a whole meal for less than four dollars. I made the rounds twice
before settling on fried rice and grilled chicken on a stick.

There was no place to sit at the market, so I hiked back to the hostel. A bar,
which was also part of the hostel, sat to the right of the living quarters, and
I sat down and enjoyed my food there. But it was empty, and I was alone. I
didn’t know what to do, but I felt uneasy. Where was the cool atmosphere? Even
the hostel owner was absent.

Eventually, after an hour had passed, a bunch of motorbikes rolled in and parked
right in front of the bar. I watched as a group of Germans took off their
helmets. They chatted and laughed with each other briefly before disappearing
inside the hostel, and again, I was left alone. *What an odd place,* I thought,
and after a while I followed them inside and went to bed.
