---
title: "Asia: Day 23"
date: 2016-03-18
features:
- a long walk
- a fruitless search
- some loud roommates
---

I woke up today with the goal of going to the beach. I was no more pleased with
the room than I had been the day before—the beds had been hard, there had been
no air conditioning throughout the night, and the showers were nothing more than
a space on the side of the building shielded with some corrugated tin. It was
definitely a massive drop in quality. But I reminded myself that I had one more
night and then I could find something better.

I quickly looked up the route to the beach on my phone. It wasn’t a straight
shot; I would have to zig-zag my way across. But it seemed walkable.

So I set out. Now that it was daytime, I could get a better sense of my
surroundings. It was very clear that I was not in the city anymore. Gone was the
busy parade of cars and scooters. Gone were the people walking along the
streets, in the streets, and through the streets. Gone were the smorgasbord of
coffee shops, temples, restaurants, and museums. Gone was the music coming from
Little India or the prayers coming from the mosque. Instead, going forth,
disappearing into the distance, was a narrow road, barely covered in asphalt.
Around there was open space—grass, trees, and dirt. There were houses, too—small
wooden structures, painted simply, with tin roofs—but they were few and far
between. The road itself was dusty, and occasionally the quiet would be
disturbed by a motorbike buzzing by.

After ten minutes, the road ended. Ahead, spanning left to right, was a large
field of dirt, and a stone’s throw away, a tractor seemed to be moving up and
down to flatten it. A sign had been posted: no trespassing. Perhaps a new road
was being laid here. I could go around, I thought, but there didn’t seem to be
another route. I watched for a minute as people on motorbikes and bicycles went
right through and crossed the construction zone. No one seemed to care—riders
and workers alike. If they didn’t get in trouble, then I couldn’t. I continued
after them.

I kept following the little dot on my phone until I was near the beach. I began
to see signs for hotels, even though the scenery hadn’t changed. Where was the
water? Where were the palm trees?  I couldn’t imagine why anyone would want to
stay in a place like this.

As I stumbled onto the main road, it was like I’d returned to a higher mode of
civilization. Here were shops and restaurants, one after another, just like a
city street, and here, too, were the people. But there didn’t seem to be a clear
entrance to the beach, even though I knew I was in the vicinity.

Five minutes turned into fifteen minutes. It was hot outside, and I could feel
the sun on my skin. Finally, I spotted an opening in between two buildings. I
turned the corner, and I found it: sand, water, beach chairs fully equipped with
umbrellas. It wasn’t what I’d had in mind, which was Costa Rica. But at the
moment, sitting down in the shade sounded great. I began to approach an empty
chair. A guy got up and came toward me. “Twenty *ringgit*,” he said. I declined.
This was nature, after all, not a resort.

I laid my daypack down in an empty place on the shore—everyone else had done the
same—and got into the water. It was warm, which meant that it didn’t do much to
cool me off, but I couldn’t really complain. The seafloor, which I could touch
even as I waded further and further, had a regular bumpiness to it. I wondered
if it was natural or man-made.

The beach was actually quite full of activity. High in the sky, paragliders
twirled around, towed by skippers circling in the water. All along the shore,
jetskis and banana boats, available for rent, lay floating in the water, like a
makeshift marina, and happy customers returning from a fun ride dismounted the
vehicles as others were carried back out to sea.

As I was taking in the scene, I briefly met a group of Americans. Two of them
were native to the U.S., and lived in Nashville; the other two were from
Malaysia. They had been to Australia on a mission trip, and the Malaysians,
promising to guide them around, had convinced them to vacation in Langkawi.
Naturally, they were more interested in being with each other than talking to
me, so soon they left the beach entirely.

I paddled around and swam a few laps in the water. But I quickly became
disenchanted—there were too many people for me to relax, and the water was
slightly too hot for me to really enjoy it.

So I walked back onto the shore. At this point I wanted two things: shade and
something cold to drink. I still didn’t want to pay for a lounge chair, so I
trudged through the sand onto the main street again and started looking for a
bar instead. Unfortunately, that proved to be more difficult than I’d thought.
Many of the restaurants I passed were mysteriously closed, and of the ones that
weren’t, only a few of them offered beer. And none of them matched the model bar
I had in my head: long table, taps, stools, music, friendliness. I walked until
I’d covered the length of Cenang Beach—a twenty-minute walk—but I was left
unsatisfied. A bar had to be somewhere.

I plodded on further south, thinking that there were other options there. Once I
left the beach, though, the surroundings completely changed. The sidewalk was
nicer, the trees were prettier, and there were fewer restaurants and more spas.
But there were definitely no bars. Plus, there was no beach to be found here,
contrary to the map.

This strategy wasn’t working. I had wasted forty minutes for nothing. I was
tired, and my feet ached. All I could do was turn around and go back.

When I made it to the hostel again thirty minutes later, I was drained. It
didn’t help that the room was stuffy and had no air conditioning or fan. I
already didn’t like the hostel, but I was also very quickly gaining a dislike
for Langkawi, too.

I rested for a few hours, and when I woke up, I was hungry. It was nine o’clock,
and I didn’t know how late restaurants closed on the island, but I didn’t want
to wait to find out. Fortunately, some of the others in the room were discussing
places to eat. Unfortunately, one of them mentioned that the night market down
the street was no longer there, but had moved to some location in the north of
the island.

Well, that was perfect—I would have to walk all the way back to the beach. This
was not as effortless as I anticipated, though, and having traced the route
already, it only took twenty minutes this time. I picked the closest restaurant,
something of both Muslim and Thai influence, and ordered a Pad Thai. It was
surprisingly delicious. Finally something good had happened. I was very pleased.

I wanted to slip into bed and quietly read my book in darkness, but when I made
it back to the hostel, I realized that no one else shared the same desire. The
lights were still on, and no one was sleeping. People were talking loudly in one
of the closed rooms, and as I laid in bed, German rap began playing. I became
annoyed. Where was this hostel’s “please keep quiet after 11pm” rule? How
inconsiderate.

This was madness. I needed to get out of here. Penang had been so much better
than this. I decided right then that I would take the ferry back the next day.
