---
title: "Asia: Day 9"
date: 2016-03-05
features:
- a needless suspicion
- a sad goodbye
- a navigation through transportation
---

The main attraction in Hangzhou is the lake, and since this was my last day in
town, I wanted to make sure I went.

For some reason, I had it in my head that the hostel was close to the lake. I
had a recollection of a kind of public area that I’d seen earlier. There were
steps leading up to a open pedestrian road, perhaps a park, and people were
gathered there. Perhaps if I headed in that direction and kept going, then I
would wind up at the lake.

But after walking for a while, I was having trouble finding this place. I
checked my map. The lake was west, so somehow or another, I needed to go that
direction.

Along the way, I stopped to snap a photo of a restaurant. It was more like a
food shack: it didn’t have any doors—it was simply open to the air—and it served
street-style food.

I was reviewing the photo on my camera when I noticed a guy approach me. “Excuse
me,” he said. “Why did you take a photo of that? Why is it interesting to you?”

I looked up. He looked like everyone else. A commoner. “Well,” I said, “it’s
interesting because it’s different. We don’t have these where I come from.”

I told him that I was from the U.S., and we made small talk for a bit. While we
were talking, I noticed a people on bicycles riding by. “I love how people bike
here,” I said.

“Do you know how to ride a bicycle?” he asked.

I said yes.

“Do you want to ride?” he asked.

Oh man. Riding a bicycle in China? What a terrific idea! “Sure!” I said, all too
easily. “I was going to go to the lake, though.”

“I can take you to the lake,” he said.

I thought about it some more. I didn’t know a ton about this guy, but based on
our brief conversation so far, he didn’t seem like he had any motives. He wasn’t
in my face, talking a mile a minute, like that girl in Shanghai had been. He
just seemed like a normal guy. Well—on second thought—maybe he was a little
kooky. Anyway, I wanted to go to the lake, and if he wanted to go too, and if he
could lead the way, then all the better.

“Okay,” I said. “Let’s do it.”

We headed down the street, and I got to know him a bit more. He had lived in
Hangzhou all his life. He loved it so much, in fact, that he never wanted to
leave, he said. He had a day job teaching classical Chinese—“very different from
Chinese now,” he said. I shared some things about myself too.

Presently, we came to a row of red bicycles next to the sidewalk. Hangzhou, just
like Denver, has a bike sharing program, and there are stations all over the
place (this was the third one I’d seen). He pulled out a card from a pocket and
held it out to me. I was a little surprised; why was he being so generous? But I
took the card from him, swiped it next to a bicycle, and pulled it out. He had a
second card that he used to check out his own bicycle, and we mounted them and
set off down the street.

It was an absolute relief to go faster for a change. Some streets had a
dedicated lane, and we weaved around slower bicycles as scooters weaved around
us. Other streets had no such lane; in this case we rode on the right side, and
cars and scooters passed us as though it were completely normal. Traffic became
busier as we rode past expensive stores. Was it really this far away? Were we
going the right direction? I began to wonder if this had really been a good
idea.

We came to the waterfront and suddenly I understood. I would never have been
able to get here on my own. It was seriously packed. Cars were jammed in the
street and people were flooding the grass and the crosswalk. “We’re not supposed
to ride here,” he said, “but I do it when the guards aren’t looking.” “Okay,” I
said nervously. We precariously navigated the crowds and I skated the bike down
the sidewalk. “You can get off here but there’s a better place up ahead,” he
called. So we went over a bridge and parked the bikes somewhere on the other
side.

The bridge flattened out here, and now that I was on my feet again, I looked
out. It was a great sight. We seemed to be on a strait of land dividing two
bodies of water. One side was vast. Toward the left, an armada of boats floated
lazily in the distance, and the city served as a backdrop; toward the right,
water filled the horizon, and the outline of a pagoda peeked above the trees.
The other side was smaller; it seemed like a large pond compared to the big
lake. Three-person water taxis guided tourists around, and a taller, slimmer
tower rose up behind the scenery.

The guy and I walked further down. I kept thinking that he must have some kind
of motive. On the bike ride over, he had sometimes stopped at a red light and
given me some fact about the road or the city as though he were a tour guide.
And twice now, as we were walking around, he had gestured toward islands that
were some distance away, and I could swear that he mentioned the word “boat”.
Whatever he was doing, I had successfully diverted his attention by telling him
that I had to leave for the train station in a couple of hours and I didn’t have
a lot of time to explore the lake fully today. (The train didn’t leave for
another several hours, but I hadn’t really lied, as I wanted to get to the
airport early.)

The whole thing seemed a little suspicious. Maybe he wasn’t actually a teacher;
maybe he worked for a company out on the lake here, and they had paid him to go
into town, find foreigners, and escort them across the lake, only to extort them
at the end.

We passed some kind of enclosed area that jutted out into the water. I couldn’t
see into it very well, and I spotted one or two people who stepped in. The guy
mentioned that there were two places which had the best views of the water, and
this was one of them. “We can go in here now,” he said, pointing to the
enclosure.

That was it! “What’s in there?” I quizzed him. “What do we have to go in there
for? This seems like a nice place, why don’t we walk along the side here?”

He looked off to the side. He had an expression I wasn’t quite able to read, but
I think I’d made him uncomfortable. “You want to just walk? Okay, we can walk,
but…”

He backed down, and my victory felt a little hollow. We strolled alongside the
water. I wanted to trust him, but the only way I knew how to do that was to have
a conversation with him.

“So,” I began, “what do you like about the lake?”

“It is very…calming,” he answered, searching for the right word.

“I agree,” I said. “It’s very peaceful. And what do you like to do when you’re
here? Do you take pictures, write poetry…?”

“Yes,” he said. “I take some pictures, but mostly I sit and look out at the
water.”

I asked him more about his family. I asked him about his job. I asked him if
he’d been to any other countries.

After a while, he said, “We should go back now. You have to go back, and I have
to teach a class at four.” Teach a class? Now? It seemed improbable, but it
seemed even more improbable that he would lie about it.

Well, that was good, because I didn’t much want to be here, anyway. We found the
bikes again, and navigated the foot traffic back to the main streets. “You want
me to take you back to your hostel?” he said at a stoplight. “Yes,” I said,
giving him the street. Again with the generosity. It was confusing. What was up
with this guy?

We set off and rode, taking a right, then left, then straight for a while.
Eventually, we reached another bike station that was close to my drop-off point.
“You know how to get to your hostel from here?” he said.

“Yes,” I said.

“Okay,” he said. “I have to go home now.”

“Okay,” I said.

Then he smiled sheepishly. “I had three beers before I talked to you.”

And it clicked. My fear, my paranoia, had been misplaced after all. He was just
a normal dude. He had probably been walking around like I had, with a good buzz
going on, and he had probably just wanted to be sociable.

He parked his bike at the station, and I gave him my bike to park, too. “It was
nice to meet you,” he said. “You too,” I said. And he walked off.

*How strange,* I thought.

---

I made it back to the hostel at a quick pace. I had already checked out, but I
had left my backpack there for them to hold. So I picked it up, said thank-you,
and started the trek to the Hangzhou train station.

When I arrived thirty minutes later, I was a little confused. This station
wasn’t set up quite the same way as the Shanghai station. I was on the ground
floor; it was all open, and people were waiting here. What were they waiting
for? And where was I to buy my ticket? I checked downstairs, but found nothing
but an entrance to the Chengzhan subway station.

I finally found signs that led me to the top floor. Here, all of the ticketing
booths were located in one room. This was a lot easier, I thought, than having
to decide between multiple ticketing stations, and there was even a special line
that said “Foreign Guests”. I managed to buy my ticket with little effort and
headed out into the main area.

But again, I was confused. Where was I supposed to wait for the train? Did they
have inside waiting rooms? I went downstairs, then back up to the top, looking
for directions. Then I spotted it: a hallway led indoors right next to the
ticketing room I had just been in. It made perfect sense.

People had lined up at the entrance, as a security checkpoint lay ahead. This
was easy to get through. I stood in line to show an agent my passport and my
ticket; then I put my backpack through the x-ray, got frisked a bit, and I was
in.

The place looked like an airport, similar to the station in Shanghai. But
whereas in Shanghai, all the platforms were in a great room, here they were
grouped together into several, and so you had to know which room to go to. But
the platform number on the ticket seemed to be the same as the waiting room
number, so that wasn’t a problem, either.

I sat down. As boarding approached, people started forming lines  in front of
the ticket gates, and I joined them. As more and more people drifted in over
time, the lines became less and less defined until they disappeared completely.
There was a crowd now, and we were all waiting for one thing. I watched as the
train service people leisurely strolled in. The tension in the air was palpable.

With one stroke they unlocked the gates, and it was like a hive of angry bees
had been released. The crowd flushed past the gates like a wave of water. You
were supposed to wait for your neighbor in front to enter before you swiped your
card and entered, but no one seemed to be doing that, and the train service
people didn’t seem to care. I had never seen anything like that before.

But I was on the train, and I found my seat, put my things away, and sat down.
As everyone was getting settled in, another passenger came up and claimed that I
was in her seat. Whoops! I showed someone my ticket in response. “Car 6,” he
said. Oh. So that’s what the number to the left of the seat number on the ticket
was supposed to represent. I grabbed my stuff and tried to avoid hitting people
while I ran two cars ahead, found my seat, and sat down just in time before the
train took off. Whew!

---

The train ride was pleasant, and soon I was back in Shanghai. Now I needed to
get to the airport. Remember the maglev train that I took to get from the
airport to the center of town? I was fairly certain that if I rode the green
line all the way to the end, then I could transfer to the train easily.

I made it to the Pudong International Airport stop and got off. Where now? I
didn’t see anything about maglev here. Then it dawned on me: I must have gone
too far. There was probably a connection at People’s Square. That would make
sense.

No matter. I had to transfer to another part of the green line, it took eight
more stops, but I arrived just fine at the airport. And since my flight didn’t
leave until one in the morning, I was plenty early.

---

The Shanghai airport is very interesting. Like the waiting room at the train
station, the top floor is an enormous room with very tall ceilings. A row of
large signs are visible, one after another, almost like aisle signs you see at
Home Depot, and they range from A to P. This is where you check in for your
flight, but instead of each aisle serving one airline, it serves three. So you
have to go up to the board that is stationed in front of the aisle and scan it
to determine if it services your airline; if not, then you go to the next aisle.

I needed a hard copy of my boarding pass in case it was required for leaving the
country, so I figured I would quickly get it printed out and be on my way. But
when I got to the correct aisle, it was completely empty. No one was standing in
line, and no one was at any of the counters. I double-checked that I was in the
right place. What was happening? And I couldn’t simply print out my boarding
pass, either, because the self-service machines were out of order.

I walked around for a while in search of a solution. A few girls rolling their
bags behind them were heading toward the same aisle that I had gone to. As they
got there, they suddenly stopped. One of them looked back at a paper in her hand
and up again, and they made frantic movements. So they were in the same boat
too.

I tailed them to see what solution they would come up with. They stopped at a
booth where a woman sat behind a desk, and they talked to her for a bit in some
language that I didn’t know. The woman gave some kind of answer, and they walked
off, seemingly unsatisfied.

That hadn’t been helpful. Now what? Maybe I needed to look at the departures
board to see if it had any additional information. My flight was listed
there—that was good—but next to it, the board said “check-in 22:00”. So I
couldn’t check in until 10pm? What kind of airport was this?

I killed time by grabbing food at a Burger King—it’s all I could find—and came
back at the designated time. Sure enough, the aisle was full, and a line had
already formed for check-in. I stood there as the line crawled along, and with
one hour to go, I had a boarding pass in my hands.

I went through security, found my gate, and boarded the plane. Finally, after a
long day, I was off and away for the next destination: Singapore.
