---
title: "Asia: Days 17-20"
date: 2016-03-15
features:
- a reality check
- a teeming marketplace
- an unregrettable camaderie
---

I had clearly been spoiled by Singapore, because for the first two days in Kuala
Lumpur, I was unimpressed.

Most noticeable was the heat and humidity. I would wake up in the morning, step
outside, and immediately start sweating, which wouldn’t end until after the sun
had set. The city was not extremely walkable: major roads ran through the heart
of the city and offered few crosswalks. It was busy and chaotic: at every turn,
the sidewalks were full of people and the streets were full of cars and
motorcycles. Where crosswalk signals happened to appear, pedestrians completely
ignored them, choosing to cross at the next opportunity. The sidewalks were worn
down, sometimes broken into pieces, sometimes blemished by a pipe or even
blocked completely by a parked car. The air smelled of gasoline and trash in
places. The river was ugly: the water was brown, graffiti covered the walls, a
pile of trash lay rotting by the water, poor people were sleeping on pedestrian
bridges. Buildings blocked the sky from all angles, aging and ancient in front,
modern and sparkly in the distance. Unfinished construction partially blocked
the entrance to a major subway station. The subway cars were always stuffed and,
as a result, stuffy. Platforms for trains going in opposite directions didn’t
face each either, requiring riders to descend and ascend on the other side. The
escalators going down and up were slow. The KL Tower cost money to get to the
top, and the Petronas Towers, which are some of the tallest in the world,
weren’t even accessible directly; instead, a giant mall lives there.

But after a couple of days, I began to adjust to the city and to understand its
charm, if only a little. Because it was hot, I looked forward to the rain.
Because it was busy in town, I made an effort to go to the Botanical Gardens.
Chinatown, while touristy, provided seemingly endless opportunities for street
food, and all of it was cheap. On an extended walk, I managed to find a couple
of museums which I made a note to go to on a return visit. Not all of the
graffiti over by the river was ugly, either; it was actually quite good, and I
wondered if any of it had been commissioned by the city itself.

But most importantly, among all of the chaos, the dirtiness, and the ugliness of
Kuala Lumpur, the hostel I stayed provided a place where I was able to meet some
new people—a girl from China and two guys from France—and spend this portion of
my travels with them. And so in the end, it was worth it.
