---
title: "Costa Rica: Day 3"
date: 2016-02-01
features:
- a resolve
- an impatience
- a mess
---

It took us a while to get going today. Neither of us was happy. Honestly, we
felt like we were trapped. We wanted to be by the beach, and we wanted to be
able to walk into town to grab a drink or get some food, and we could do neither
of those things easily. If you remember from last time, we’d discovered that the
place we were staying was away from town, up a rather steep hill. We had been
using a taxi driver to take us back and forth, and to prove how steep it was, on
the way up he’d had to put the pedal to the floor, and on the way he’d had to
downshift all the way and keep it there. You’d have to be crazy to walk down it,
especially at night.

So we had a new decision to make: we could either continue to rely on our taxi
driver, get our own mode of transportation and rent a car or 4×4, or call it a
wash and find a new place. At this point, we were leaning really hard toward the
last option.

On top of this, we needed a way to get more money, and I was the only one of us
who’d had a debit card, and now I was without it. I wasn’t sure what to do, but
Lori reasoned that perhaps it was possible that my bank had a sister bank here.
So, after some time, we finally decided to order another taxi into town and find
a bank and a coffee shop. Once we were down there, I called my bank. They didn’t
have a sister bank there, they said, but it was possible to transfer money using
a moneygram or Western Union. Of course! And, as luck would have it, we found a
convenience store that processed Western Union money orders. This was something
I hadn’t ever done before, and the lady gave us instructions: all I had to do
was create the transfer on my end, give them some kind of identification code
(“is very important”, she said) along with my passport and the amount I wanted
to withdraw, and then they would take it from there.

Armed with this information, Lori and I found a bar that was down the street,
and once settled, I sent a note to the contact at my bank relaying what I’d
learned. He said I could simply create the transfer online and use my account
and routing number and it would be processed as an ACH. So I promptly set out to
do that. It took me a few clicks on the Western Union website to figure out that
you needed to register first, but no big deal. The interface was giving me some
problems, but after a couple of tries, I managed to create the transfer using my
credit card. I sat there and waited, and after a few minutes I received an email
saying that the transfer was complete! Sure enough, the email contained the code
that the lady mentioned.

So I got up and walked over to the convenience store, and gave them the
necessary requirements. The man who was there this time went to his computer,
input the information, and after a few seconds, said, “No work.” “No work?” I
said. That was strange. It should have worked. I thought perhaps it had
something to do with my credit card; I was under the belief that it was backed
by my bank account and the funds weren’t going through because I’d put the debit
card on hold.

So I left and went back to the bar. While I was pondering, I realized I’d made a
mistake: I wasn’t supposed to make the transfer using my credit card, I was
supposed to input my account and routing numbers directly. No problem: I would
just make another transfer. I had been logged out of Western Union by this
point, so I tried to log in. But the site rejected my credentials. That’s
strange, I thought. Maybe my password manager didn’t save it correctly? I copied
and pasted the password to make sure it was right. It still didn’t work. So I
tried again, then again.

Of course, what I completely forgot is that financial kinds of websites lock you
out after five failed attempts. And that’s exactly what happened. Ugh. That
meant I had to call Western Union to see if they could unlock my account.
Perhaps they could even investigate why my transfer wasn’t going through at the
same time. So I found a back room in the bar and dialed the number. I waited on
hold for a long time, but eventually a representative answered, and I relayed to
him my situation. He answered that before proceeding, I needed to answer a few
questions, which I did. He then revealed that the transfer was processing and
that it would be ready within a few minutes. Great!

Of course, while he was doing that, I had gone onto my credit card company’s
website and logged in. The first thing I saw on-screen was that they had
attempted to send me a new card a while back — apparently it had a chip in it
that the old one didn’t — and were not able to mail it out to me. They had the
option of redelivering the new card, so I figured, whatever, why not take care
of that too. I assumed that it worked like my bank, where if you asked for a
replacement card, you could still use your current card until you activated the
new one.

That was not the case with this bank, as the screen that came up after I clicked
the button informed me.

Damn. I was in a real pickle now: not only did I not have a debit card, I no
longer had a credit card that worked. And although the money transfer was
apparently processing, there was no way it was going to work now.

I briefed the representative on these new details, and he said that I could
cancel the current transfer and make a new one, if that’s what I wanted to do. I
waffled for a bit, but I figured that I didn’t want to have two transfers
happening at the same time, in case both of them went through. So I told him to
cancel the transfer.

Where did that leave me?

Well, perhaps I could make a new transfer using my bank account instead. Was
that possible? Oh, no, I’d have to be transferred to another department for
that. A few minutes on hold later, I got the answer: no, I couldn’t. Great. I
told the agent I was having trouble logging in, and I was transferred again.
More hold music. “Yes, I’m having trouble logging in.” “Simple, sir, you can get
help by sending a question to our email address.” Well, I didn’t want to do
that, but at this point, I was really sick of being on the phone.

I came back into the bar, sat down, and offloaded the last hour (it felt like an
eternity) onto Lori. I was hoping for some pity but got none. “Did you try
calling the credit card company to see if you can reactivate your card?” she
asked. “No,” I whined. “They’re not going to do that.” “You don’t know that,”
she said. “Go and call them.” I was angry, and secretly wished this had been her
fault. But it was my problem, and I needed to fix it.

So I went back to the corner and got back on the phone. Again, it took about
fifteen minutes for someone to answer, but eventually someone did, and I told
him the story — that I mistakenly canceled my card in the process of trying to
resend a replacement card, but I was overseas and was it possible to re-activate
my current card? The representative was fortunately very nice (a first in a
while) but informed me that was not going to be possible. So I got one
assumption correct, at least, but it didn’t make the news any worse. I was
appreciative that he gave me a number in case I needed any more help which was
more of a hotline, so I wouldn’t have to go through as much hold music.

But there was really nothing more I could do. And, in a weird way, it put me at
ease. We weren’t completely out of the water, because Lori had a credit card on
her. It certainly wasn’t convenient — it meant that we had to make sure to
conserve the remaining physical money that we had. But we were okay, at least
for the time being.
